son/content/drivers_of_social_mobility/composite_indices/conditions_of_childhood/1.0.md, before:

---
title: Conditions of childhood
date: 2024-09-11
change_history: First published
---

Data on the conditions of childhood in UK local authorities – measured by childhood poverty, and the qualifications and occupation levels of parents. This index captures whether the conditions children grow up in are good for promoting social mobility.

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Index of conditions of childhood, by local authority (UK)

        ::: inset_text classes="govuk-!-margin-top-3"
            [203 local authority areas in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area/latest#list-of-uk-regions)
            are put into 5 groups – from ‘most favourable’ to ‘least favourable’ conditions – based on their ‘index of conditions of childhood’ composite scores.
            The categories are not equally sized – the middle category is larger because most local authorities are very near the average.
            Areas with the highest scores have the most favourable childhood conditions.
        :::

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "CI",
                "title": "Index of conditions of childhood, by local authority (UK)",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/UK203regions-simplify2percent.topojson",
                "data": "1.0/CI-1.0-childhood-conditions--by-region--chart-format.csv",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "Newname",
                "quantile": "group",
                "groupLabels": ["Least Favourable","Unfavourable","Middle Group","Favourable","Most Favourable"],
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "zero": false,
                "background": false,
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "hideCaterpillar": true,
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Index of conditions of childhood, by local authority (UK)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/CI-1.0-childhood-conditions--by-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2, 0]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## Summary main findings
Children brought up in Kingston upon Thames and Richmond upon Thames – as well as in Surrey county council area, Windsor and Maidenhead – have the ‘most favourable’ conditions of childhood. This means their parents are more likely to have higher earnings, higher levels of education, and higher occupation levels.

Outside London and the home counties, Trafford and East Dunbartonshire also have more favourable conditions of childhood.

Less favourable conditions of childhood tend to be found in the North East of England, in coastal cities, industrial and former mining areas, such as Oldham and Stoke-on-Trent, as well as some inner-city areas in London.

Some regions contain both favourable and less favourable areas. Many favourable areas are in London and the South of England, while there are also areas of high deprivation in London. The same applies in Scotland and Wales. This means that the ‘north-south divide’ for conditions of childhood is less clear than it is for [labour market opportunities for young people](/drivers_of_social_mobility/composite_indices/labour_market_opportunities_for_young_people/latest).

---

## About the data

### Data source(s)
* Households below average income (HBAI) statistics, Department for Work and Pensions
* Labour Force Survey (LFS), Office for National Statistics

### Time period
* 2014 to 2022 combined (LFS)
* 2018 to 2022 (HBAI)

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures

This page combines data from the following drivers into a single 'composite' score:

* [Childhood poverty](/drivers_of_social_mobility/conditions_of_childhood/childhood_poverty/latest)
* [Distribution of parental education](/drivers_of_social_mobility/conditions_of_childhood/distribution_of_parental_education/latest)
* [Distribution of parental occupation](/drivers_of_social_mobility/conditions_of_childhood/distribution_of_parental_occupation/latest) – data on parents in working class and professional occupations

### Things you need to know
Areas are based on where respondents lived when they were surveyed, not where they grew up.

### Type of data
Survey data

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="1.0/CI-1.0-childhood-conditions--full-dataset.csv" :::

Commit message:

Updated Conditions of childhood CI with Z-scores lines.md

son/content/drivers_of_social_mobility/composite_indices/conditions_of_childhood/1.0.md, after:

---
title: Conditions of childhood
date: 2024-09-11
change_history: First published
---

Data on the conditions of childhood in UK local authorities – measured by childhood poverty, and the qualifications and occupation levels of parents. This index captures whether the conditions children grow up in are good for promoting social mobility.

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Index of conditions of childhood, by local authority (UK)

        ::: inset_text classes="govuk-!-margin-top-3"
            [203 local authority areas in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area/latest#list-of-uk-regions)
            are put into 5 groups – from ‘most favourable’ to ‘least favourable’ conditions – based on their ‘index of conditions of childhood’ composite scores.
            The categories are not equally sized – the middle category is larger because most local authorities are very near the average.
            Areas with the highest scores have the most favourable childhood conditions.
        :::

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "CI",
                "title": "Index of conditions of childhood, by local authority (UK)",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/UK203regions-simplify2percent.topojson",
                "data": "1.0/CI-1.0-childhood-conditions--by-region--chart-format.csv",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "Newname",
                "quantile": "group",
                "groupLabels": ["Least Favourable","Unfavourable","Middle Group","Favourable","Most Favourable"],
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "zero": false,
                "background": false,
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "hideCaterpillar": true,
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Index of conditions of childhood, by local authority (UK)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/CI-1.0-childhood-conditions--by-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2, 0]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## Summary main findings
Children brought up in Kingston upon Thames and Richmond upon Thames – as well as in Surrey county council area, Windsor and Maidenhead – have the ‘most favourable’ conditions of childhood. This means their parents are more likely to have higher earnings, higher levels of education, and higher occupation levels.

Outside London and the home counties, Trafford and East Dunbartonshire also have more favourable conditions of childhood.

Less favourable conditions of childhood tend to be found in the North East of England, in coastal cities, industrial and former mining areas, such as Oldham and Stoke-on-Trent, as well as some inner-city areas in London.

Some regions contain both favourable and less favourable areas. Many favourable areas are in London and the South of England, while there are also areas of high deprivation in London. The same applies in Scotland and Wales. This means that the ‘north-south divide’ for conditions of childhood is less clear than it is for [labour market opportunities for young people](/drivers_of_social_mobility/composite_indices/labour_market_opportunities_for_young_people/latest).

---

## About the data

### Data source(s)
* Households below average income (HBAI) statistics, Department for Work and Pensions
* Labour Force Survey (LFS), Office for National Statistics

### Time period
* 2014 to 2022 combined (LFS)
* 2018 to 2022 (HBAI)

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures

This page combines data from the following drivers into a single 'composite' score:

* [Childhood poverty](/drivers_of_social_mobility/conditions_of_childhood/childhood_poverty/latest)
* [Distribution of parental education](/drivers_of_social_mobility/conditions_of_childhood/distribution_of_parental_education/latest)
* [Distribution of parental occupation](/drivers_of_social_mobility/conditions_of_childhood/distribution_of_parental_occupation/latest) – data on parents in working class and professional occupations

### Things you need to know
Areas are based on where respondents lived when they were surveyed, not where they grew up.

The unit used for this index is the 'Z-score'. This is a type of statistical measurement which can be used to tell us how likely it is that a region is different to the UK average. 

The values shown are not percentages, and the difference between regions cannot be compared in percentage terms. 

The Z-scores are used to put regions into one of five groups, according to a set of thresholds for each group. Please see our [technical annex](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2024-local-to-national-mapping-opportunities-for-all/technical-annex) for more information on how each area was scored.

### Type of data
Survey data

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="1.0/CI-1.0-childhood-conditions--full-dataset.csv" :::
