---
title: Conditions of childhood
date: 2025-12-18
change_history: 2025 updates
---

Data on the conditions of childhood in UK local authorities over time – measured by the earnings, qualifications and occupation levels of parents. This index shows whether the conditions children grow up in are good for promoting social mobility.

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Index of conditions of childhood, by local authority (UK)

        ::: inset_text classes="govuk-!-margin-top-3"
            [205 local authority areas in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area/latest#list-of-uk-regions)
            are put into 7 groups – from ‘most favourable’ to ‘least favourable’ conditions – based on their ‘index of conditions of childhood’ composite scores.
            The categories are not equally sized – the middle category is larger because most local authorities are very near the average.
            Areas with the highest scores have the most favourable childhood conditions.
        :::

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "CI",
                "title": "Index of conditions of childhood, by local authority (UK)",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/2025-UK205regions.json",
                "data": [{
                    "label": "2000 to 2005",
                    "data": "2.0/CI1-2.0-conditions-of-childhood--by-UK205regions--2000-to-2005--chart-format.csv"
                },
                {
                    "label": "2006 to 2011",
                    "data": "2.0/CI1-2.0-conditions-of-childhood--by-UK205regions--2006-to-2011--chart-format.csv"
                },
                {
                    "label": "2012 to 2017",
                    "data": "2.0/CI1-2.0-conditions-of-childhood--by-UK205regions--2012-to-2017--chart-format.csv"
                },
                {
                    "label": "2018 to 2024",
                    "data": "2.0/CI1-2.0-conditions-of-childhood--by-UK205regions--2018-to-2024--chart-format.csv"
                }
                ],
                "toggle": "radio",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "Newname",
                "quantile": "group_number",
                "groupLabels": [
                    "Least Favourable","Unfavourable", "Lower Middling",
                    "Middling", "Upper Middling","Favourable","Most Favourable"
                    ],
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "sevenCategories",
                "zero": false,
                "background": false,
                "colourScheme": [
                    "#ca0020", "#f3a582", "#FFEBCC", "#ffffbf", "#C9E2F2", "#92c5de", "#0671b0"
                    ],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "hideCaterpillar": true,
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
        :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Index of conditions of childhood, by local authority (UK)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/CI1-2.0-conditions-of-childhood--by-UK205regions--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2, 0, 2, 0, 2, 0, 2, 0],
                "dataTableNumberOfHeadingRows": 2
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## Summary main findings
Data for 2018 to 2024 combined shows that children brought up in the London boroughs of Wandsworth, Richmond upon Thames, and Kingston upon Thames – as well as in Wokingham, Windsor, and Maidenhead (all in Berkshire) – have the ‘most favourable’ conditions of childhood. This means their parents are more likely to have higher earnings, higher levels of education, and higher occupation levels.

Outside London and the home counties, East Renfrewshire and East Dunbartonshire in Scotland also had more favourable conditions of childhood.

There were less favourable conditions of childhood in the North East of England, coastal cities, industrial and former mining areas, such as Blackburn with Darwen, Hull, North East Lincolnshire and Middlesbrough.

The conditions of childhood scores have remained stable over time for UK local authorities, with any movement being gradual. Areas of long-term disadvantage often include former mining and manufacturing areas. Global cities like London and Edinburgh, with their service economies, have consistently performed well.

---

## About the data

### Data source(s)
Labour Force Survey (LFS), Office for National Statistics

### Time period
* 2000 to 2005 combined
* 2006 to 2011 combined
* 2012 to 2017 combined
* 2018 to 2024 combined

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures

This page combines data from the following drivers into a single 'composite' score:

* [Parental income](/drivers_of_social_mobility/conditions_of_childhood/parental_income/latest)
* [Distribution of parental education](/drivers_of_social_mobility/conditions_of_childhood/distribution_of_parental_education/latest)
* [Distribution of parental occupation](/drivers_of_social_mobility/conditions_of_childhood/distribution_of_parental_occupation/latest) – data on parents in working class and professional occupations

### Things you need to know
This composite index previously included a measure of childhood poverty. This data is not currently available, so it has been replaced by a measure of parental income. 

Areas are based on where respondents lived when they were surveyed, not where they grew up.

The unit used for this index is the 'Z-score'. This is a type of statistical measurement which can be used to tell us how likely it is that a region is different to the UK average. 

The values shown are not percentages, and the difference between regions cannot be compared in percentage terms. 

The Z-scores are used to put regions into one of 7 groups, according to a set of thresholds for each group. See our [technical annex](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2025-the-evolving-story-of-social-mobility-in-the-uk/technical-annex) for more information on how each area was scored.

### Type of data
Survey data

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/CI1-2.0-conditions-of-childhood--full-dataset.csv" :::
