son/content/mobility_outcomes/income/absolute_income_mobility/1.0.md, before:

---
title: Absolute income mobility
date: 2023-09-12
change_history: First published
---

UK and international data on upward absolute income mobility – people whose income at 30 years old was higher than
their parents’ income at the same age.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

Data on people born between 1960 and 1987 in the UK shows that absolute income mobility was above 70% for people
born in the mid-1970s. It went down to below 70% for people born later.

---

## By year of birth

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year of birth" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of children whose family income at 30 years old was higher than their parents’ family income at 30 years old, by country and year of birth (‘birth cohort’)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year of birth"
            {
                "code": "MO21",
                "title": "Percentage of children whose family income at 30 years old was higher than their parents’ family income at 30 years old, by country and year of birth (‘birth cohort’)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "1.0/MO21_overview-20230526.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "Time_period",
                "ykey": "Value",
                "zkey": "Area_name",
                "sort": "Time_period",
                "scale": "%",
                "multiply": 100,
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticks": 7,
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c", "#4c2c92", "#d53880", "#28a197", "#b58840", "#505a5f", "#f499be", "#85994b", "#6f72af"],
                "range": [40, 80],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 40,
                "rolloverBehaviour": "fade",
                "clickBehaviour": "isolate"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year of birth" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of children whose family income at 30 years old was higher than their parents’ family income at 30 years old, by country and year of birth (‘birth cohort’)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/MO21-absolute-income-mobility--by-year-and-country--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, null, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year of birth" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Manduca and others (2020). Trends in absolute income mobility in North America and Europe.

### Time period
1960 to 1987 (people’s year of birth)

### Geographic area
UK and internationally

### What the data measures
The data shows estimates of upward absolute income mobility for people born between 1960 and 1987.

The upward absolute mobility rate is the percentage of children in each year (‘birth cohort’) whose family income
at 30 years old was higher than their parents’ family income at 30 years old.

### Things you need to know
Income is calculated before tax but after benefits, and adjusted for inflation. Incomes for each country are based
on both register and survey data.

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2023 on GOV.UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2023-people-and-places).

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="1.0/MO21-absolute-income-mobility--full-dataset.csv" :::

Commit message:

Updated Absolute income mobility (link to SON24)

son/content/mobility_outcomes/income/absolute_income_mobility/1.0.md, after:

---
title: Absolute income mobility
date: 2023-09-12
change_history: First published
---

UK and international data on upward absolute income mobility – people whose income at 30 years old was higher than
their parents’ income at the same age.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

Data on people born between 1960 and 1987 in the UK shows that absolute income mobility was above 70% for people
born in the mid-1970s. It went down to below 70% for people born later.

---

## By year of birth

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year of birth" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of children whose family income at 30 years old was higher than their parents’ family income at 30 years old, by country and year of birth (‘birth cohort’)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year of birth"
            {
                "code": "MO21",
                "title": "Percentage of children whose family income at 30 years old was higher than their parents’ family income at 30 years old, by country and year of birth (‘birth cohort’)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "1.0/MO21_overview-20230526.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "Time_period",
                "ykey": "Value",
                "zkey": "Area_name",
                "sort": "Time_period",
                "scale": "%",
                "multiply": 100,
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticks": 7,
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c", "#4c2c92", "#d53880", "#28a197", "#b58840", "#505a5f", "#f499be", "#85994b", "#6f72af"],
                "range": [40, 80],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 40,
                "rolloverBehaviour": "fade",
                "clickBehaviour": "isolate"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year of birth" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of children whose family income at 30 years old was higher than their parents’ family income at 30 years old, by country and year of birth (‘birth cohort’)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/MO21-absolute-income-mobility--by-year-and-country--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, null, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year of birth" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Manduca and others (2020). Trends in absolute income mobility in North America and Europe.

### Time period
1960 to 1987 (people’s year of birth)

### Geographic area
UK and internationally

### What the data measures
The data shows estimates of upward absolute income mobility for people born between 1960 and 1987.

The upward absolute mobility rate is the percentage of children in each year (‘birth cohort’) whose family income
at 30 years old was higher than their parents’ family income at 30 years old.

### Things you need to know
Income is calculated before tax but after benefits, and adjusted for inflation. Incomes for each country are based
on both register and survey data.

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
[State of the Nation 2024](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2024-local-to-national-mapping-opportunities-for-all) does not include updates to this page. 

Read more about mobility outcomes in [State of the Nation 2023](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2023-people-and-places/chapter-2-mobility-outcomes) on GOV.UK.

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="1.0/MO21-absolute-income-mobility--full-dataset.csv" :::
