son/content/mobility_outcomes/housing/relative_housing_mobility/1.0.md, before:

---
title: Relative housing mobility
date: 2023-09-12
change_history: First published
---

Data on the link in home ownership between people in the UK and their parents.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

Since 1991, relative housing mobility has gone down. This means the link in home ownership between people and their
parents has got stronger.

In the period from 2016 to 2020, relative housing mobility was lower among women than men.
It was also lower among disabled people than non-disabled people.

There were no significant differences in relative housing mobility between UK regions.

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents (UK, 1991, 2001, 2011, and 2016 to 2020 combined)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "MO42",
                "title": "Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents (UK, 1991, 2001, 2011, and 2016 to 2020 combined)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "1.0/MO42_overview-20230602.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "Time_period",
                "ykey": "Value",
                "zkey": "Area_name",
                "sort": "Time_period",
                "scale": "Ratio",
                "lowerConfidence": "LCI",
                "upperConfidence": "UCI",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca"],
                "range": [0, 7],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 25
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents (UK, 1991, 2001, 2011, and 2016 to 2020 combined)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/MO42-relative-housing-mobility--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## By area

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents, by region (UK, 2016 to 2020 combined)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "MO42",
                "title": "Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents, by region (UK, 2016 to 2020 combined)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "1.0/MO42_area-20230602.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "Value",
                "ykey": "Area_name",
                "sort": "-Value",
                "scale": "Ratio",
                "lowerConfidence": "LCI",
                "upperConfidence": "UCI",
                "confidenceIntervals": "visible",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "legend": false,
                "zero": false,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca"],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents, by region (UK, 2016 to 2020 combined)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/MO42-relative-housing-mobility--by-ITL1-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## By sex

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By sex" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents, by sex (UK, 2016 to 2020 combined)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By sex"
            {
                "code": "MO42",
                "title": "Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents, by sex (UK, 2016 to 2020 combined)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "1.0/MO42_gender-20230602.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "doty",
                "xkey": "Sex",
                "ykey": "Value",
                "zkey": "Area_name",
                "scale": "Ratio",
                "lowerConfidence": "LCI",
                "upperConfidence": "UCI",
                "confidenceIntervals": "visible",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca"],
                "range": [2, 4],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 40
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By sex" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents, by sex (UK, 2016 to 2020 combined)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/MO42-relative-housing-mobility--by-sex--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By sex" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## By disability

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By disability" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents, by disability status (UK, 2016 to 2020 combined)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By disability"
            {
                "code": "MO42",
                "title": "Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents, by disability status (UK, 2016 to 2020 combined)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "1.0/MO42_disability-20230602.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "doty",
                "xkey": "Category",
                "ykey": "Value",
                "zkey": "Area_name",
                "scale": "Ratio",
                "lowerConfidence": "LCI",
                "upperConfidence": "UCI",
                "confidenceIntervals": "visible",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "yticks": 5,
                "xticksLength": 12,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca"],
                "range": [2, 4],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 40
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By disability" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents, by disability status (UK, 2016 to 2020 combined)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/MO42-relative-housing-mobility--by-disability--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By disability" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Office for National Statistics (ONS), Wealth and Assets Survey (WAS)

Brian Bell and others, *‘Where is the land of hope and glory? The geography of intergenerational mobility in England and Wales’*, 2018.

### Time period
1991, 2001, 2011, 2016 to 2017, and 2018 to 2020

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the link in home ownership between people in the UK and their parents.

### Things you need to know
Values are shown as odds ratios. A higher odds ratio means a stronger link in home ownership between people and
their parents and lower housing mobility. A lower odds ratio means a weaker link and greater relative housing mobility.

Data is weighted using the WAS individual weights.

Logistic regression modelling confirms that there was:

* a statistically significant difference between the relative housing mobility of men and women
* a statistically significant difference between the relative housing mobility of those with and without a disability
* no statistically significant difference between relative housing mobility between different regions

The error bars show 95% confidence intervals. These intervals show where we expect the true value from a population to
be 95% of the time. For example, a confidence interval with the range of values from 5 to 10 implies that there is a
95% chance that the true population value is between 5 and 10, and a 5% chance that it is outside of this range.
The narrower the confidence interval or range, the more precise the estimate. Read more about
[confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals)

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2023 on GOV.UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2023-people-and-places).

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="1.0/MO42-relative-housing-mobility--full-dataset.csv" :::

Commit message:

Updated Relative housing mobility (link to SON24 report)

son/content/mobility_outcomes/housing/relative_housing_mobility/1.0.md, after:

---
title: Relative housing mobility
date: 2023-09-12
change_history: First published
---

Data on the link in home ownership between people in the UK and their parents.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

Since 1991, relative housing mobility has gone down. This means the link in home ownership between people and their
parents has got stronger.

In the period from 2016 to 2020, relative housing mobility was lower among women than men.
It was also lower among disabled people than non-disabled people.

There were no significant differences in relative housing mobility between UK regions.

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents (UK, 1991, 2001, 2011, and 2016 to 2020 combined)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "MO42",
                "title": "Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents (UK, 1991, 2001, 2011, and 2016 to 2020 combined)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "1.0/MO42_overview-20230602.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "Time_period",
                "ykey": "Value",
                "zkey": "Area_name",
                "sort": "Time_period",
                "scale": "Ratio",
                "lowerConfidence": "LCI",
                "upperConfidence": "UCI",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca"],
                "range": [0, 7],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 25
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents (UK, 1991, 2001, 2011, and 2016 to 2020 combined)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/MO42-relative-housing-mobility--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## By area

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents, by region (UK, 2016 to 2020 combined)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "MO42",
                "title": "Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents, by region (UK, 2016 to 2020 combined)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "1.0/MO42_area-20230602.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "Value",
                "ykey": "Area_name",
                "sort": "-Value",
                "scale": "Ratio",
                "lowerConfidence": "LCI",
                "upperConfidence": "UCI",
                "confidenceIntervals": "visible",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "legend": false,
                "zero": false,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca"],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents, by region (UK, 2016 to 2020 combined)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/MO42-relative-housing-mobility--by-ITL1-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## By sex

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By sex" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents, by sex (UK, 2016 to 2020 combined)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By sex"
            {
                "code": "MO42",
                "title": "Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents, by sex (UK, 2016 to 2020 combined)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "1.0/MO42_gender-20230602.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "doty",
                "xkey": "Sex",
                "ykey": "Value",
                "zkey": "Area_name",
                "scale": "Ratio",
                "lowerConfidence": "LCI",
                "upperConfidence": "UCI",
                "confidenceIntervals": "visible",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca"],
                "range": [2, 4],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 40
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By sex" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents, by sex (UK, 2016 to 2020 combined)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/MO42-relative-housing-mobility--by-sex--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By sex" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## By disability

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By disability" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents, by disability status (UK, 2016 to 2020 combined)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By disability"
            {
                "code": "MO42",
                "title": "Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents, by disability status (UK, 2016 to 2020 combined)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "1.0/MO42_disability-20230602.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "doty",
                "xkey": "Category",
                "ykey": "Value",
                "zkey": "Area_name",
                "scale": "Ratio",
                "lowerConfidence": "LCI",
                "upperConfidence": "UCI",
                "confidenceIntervals": "visible",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "yticks": 5,
                "xticksLength": 12,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca"],
                "range": [2, 4],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 40
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By disability" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Odds ratios of the relationship in home ownership between people and their parents, by disability status (UK, 2016 to 2020 combined)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/MO42-relative-housing-mobility--by-disability--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By disability" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Office for National Statistics (ONS), Wealth and Assets Survey (WAS)

Brian Bell and others, *‘Where is the land of hope and glory? The geography of intergenerational mobility in England and Wales’*, 2018.

### Time period
1991, 2001, 2011, 2016 to 2017, and 2018 to 2020

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the link in home ownership between people in the UK and their parents.

### Things you need to know
Values are shown as odds ratios. A higher odds ratio means a stronger link in home ownership between people and
their parents and lower housing mobility. A lower odds ratio means a weaker link and greater relative housing mobility.

Data is weighted using the WAS individual weights.

Logistic regression modelling confirms that there was:

* a statistically significant difference between the relative housing mobility of men and women
* a statistically significant difference between the relative housing mobility of those with and without a disability
* no statistically significant difference between relative housing mobility between different regions

The error bars show 95% confidence intervals. These intervals show where we expect the true value from a population to
be 95% of the time. For example, a confidence interval with the range of values from 5 to 10 implies that there is a
95% chance that the true population value is between 5 and 10, and a 5% chance that it is outside of this range.
The narrower the confidence interval or range, the more precise the estimate. Read more about
[confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals)

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
[State of the Nation 2024](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2024-local-to-national-mapping-opportunities-for-all) does not include updates to this page. 

Read more about mobility outcomes in [State of the Nation 2023](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2023-people-and-places/chapter-2-mobility-outcomes) on GOV.UK.

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="1.0/MO42-relative-housing-mobility--full-dataset.csv" :::
