---
title: Gross value added per capita
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---
Data on gross value added (GVA) for each member of the UK population (‘per capita’). GVA measures the increase in the value of the economy due to the production of goods and services.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

Between 1998 and 2023, gross value added (GVA) per capita went up in the UK and its 4 nations. It was £33,305 across the UK in 2023.

There were large drops in GVA in 2009 and 2020 due to the financial crisis and the COVID-19 pandemic. 

In 2023, Inner London West had the highest GVA per capita out of all UK regions, at £250,416. Outer East and North East London had the lowest, at £22,522. 

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Gross value added (GVA) per capita, adjusted for inflation, by country over time (UK, 1998 to 2023)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR55",
                "title": "Gross value added (GVA) per capita, adjusted for inflation, by country over time (UK, 1998 to 2023)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "3.0/DR15-3.0-distribution-of-parental-occupation--by-year--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "secondary_split_value",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "primary_split_value",
                "sort": "secondary_split_value",
                "scale": "%",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticksSmallScreen": "abreviate",
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "reverseLegend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#1a9e1c", "#00703c", "#eb652e", "#0096ff", "#0f265c"],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 45,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff",
                "clickBehaviour": "filter"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Gross value added (GVA) per capita, adjusted for inflation, by country over time (UK, 1998 to 2023)",
                "dataTable": "3.0/DR15-3.0-distribution-of-parental-occupation--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## By area

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Gross value added (GVA) per capita, by region (UK, 2023)
        
        ::: inset_text classes="govuk-!-margin-top-3"
            41 regions in the UK are ranked from the lowest to highest values. They are then divided into 5 equally-sized groups (‘quintiles’), from 1 (lowest) to 5 (highest).
            
            The lines either side of the dots represent [confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals) – the range of values that the 'true' value for each region is highly likely to be within. In many cases the confidence intervals overlap. This suggests differences between specific regions may not be statistically significant.
            
            The regional estimates have a large margin of error – do not rank or compare specific regions. See the [composite indices](/social_mobility_by_area#composite-measures-by-region) for more precise estimates and to understand overall regional patterns.
        :::

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "DR15",
                "title": "Gross value added (GVA) per capita, by region (UK, 2023)",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/International_Territorial_Level_2_(January_2021)_UK_BUC.json",
                "data": [{
                    "label": "Higher professional",
                    "data": "3.0/DR15-3.0-distribution-of-parental-occupation--by-ITL2-region--higher-professional--chart-format.csv",
                    "tooltipTitle": "Percentage of adults in a higher professional occupation",
                    "xtitle": "Percentage of adults in families with dependent \n children in higher professional occupations"
                }, {
                    "label": "Lower working",
                    "data": "3.0/DR15-3.0-distribution-of-parental-occupation--by-ITL2-region--lower-working--chart-format.csv",
                    "reversePolarity": true,
                    "tooltipTitle": "Percentage of adults in a lower working class occupation",
                    "xtitle": "Percentage of adults in families with dependent \n children in lower working class occupations"
                }],
                "toggle": "radio",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "ITL221NM",
                "scale": "%",
                "lowerConfidence": "lci",
                "upperConfidence": "uci",
                "confidenceIntervals": "visible",
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "quantile": "category",
                "zero": false,
                "background": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "domain": [5, 35],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "value",
                "ykey": "area_name",
                "sort": "-value",
                "xgrid": true,
                "ygrid": true,
                "legend": false,
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
                
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Gross value added (GVA) per capita, by region (UK, 2023)",
                "dataTable": "3.0/DR15-3.0-distribution-of-parental-occupation--by-ITL2-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Regional gross value added (balanced) per head and income components, Office for National Statistics (ONS)

### Time period
* 1998 to 2023 (By year)
* 2023 (By area)

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows gross value added (GVA) adjusted for the size of the population.
 
GVA measures the increase in the value of the economy due to the production of goods and services. 

For more information on how ONS produces its GVA estimates, please see the [State of the Nation 2025 technical annex](). 

### Things you need to know
This page was published for the first time for State of the Nation 2025

Earnings have been adjusted for inflation using 2022 as the base year.

The 41 regions used in the analysis by area are different to the regions used in other data on this website. This is because ONS updated the regions in 2025.

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2025 on GOV.UK]().

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="3.0/DR15-3.0-distribution-of-parental-occupation--full-dataset.csv" :::
