son/content/intermediate_outcomes/routes_into_work_(16_to_29_years)/entry_to_higher_education.md, before:

## Code
IN22

## Title
Entry to higher education

## Summary
Data on the percentage of 18 to 20 year olds studying for a full-time first degree, by socio-economic background.

## Subtitle
Summary main findings

## Text
34% of all 18 to 20 year olds were studying in higher education in 2021.

51% of 18 to 20 year olds from a higher professional background started a higher education course, compared with 21%
of those from a lower working class background. This is one of the largest class inequalities reported in State of the Nation 2023.

A similar percentage of 18 to 20 year olds from higher working class (34%), intermediate (35%) and
lower professional (38%) backgrounds began studying in higher education in 2021.

## Section
By socio-economic background

## Chart: Single-bar
{
    "code": "IN22",
    "title": "Percentage of 18 to 20 year olds enrolled in higher education, by socio-economic background (UK, 2021)",
    "tooltipTitle": "",
    "data": "/static/data/indicators/IN22_overview-20230327.csv",
    "height": 450,
    "type": "bary",
    "xkey": "SEB",
    "ykey": "Value",
    "zkey": "SEB",
    "scale": "%",
    "rounding": "0dp",
    "lowerConfidence": "LCI",
    "upperConfidence": "UCI",
    "xgrid": false,
    "ygrid": true,
    "yticks": 5,
    "legend": true,
    "colourScheme": ["#1a9e1c", "#00703c", "#eb652e", "#0096ff", "#0f265c", "#808080"],
    "margin": [0, 0, 0, 0],
    "textLabels": "center",
    "labelColour": "#fff",
    "dataTable": "/static/pre-processed-csvs/IN22-entry-to-higher-education--by-SEB--table-format.csv",
    "disableJavascriptAlterationOfDataTable": true,
    "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
    "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1]
}

## Section
About the data

## Text
### Data source
Office for National Statistics, Labour Force Survey (LFS), 2021

### Time period
2021

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the percentage of 18 to 20 year olds in the UK who began studying a higher education course in 2021. 

### Things you need to know
Data used is weighted using LFS probability weights. 

### Type of data
Survey data

Read more in State of the Nation 2023 on GOV.UK.

## Section
Download the data

## Text
[Download full dataset (CSV)](/static/data/full-datasets/IN22-entry-to-higher-education--full-dataset.csv){: target="_blank" class="download" }

Commit message:

EHD-704: Content changes following SMC review: Add in the "Confidence intervals" statement

son/content/intermediate_outcomes/routes_into_work_(16_to_29_years)/entry_to_higher_education.md, after:

## Code
IN22

## Title
Entry to higher education

## Summary
Data on the percentage of 18 to 20 year olds studying for a full-time first degree, by socio-economic background.

## Subtitle
Summary main findings

## Text
34% of all 18 to 20 year olds were studying in higher education in 2021.

51% of 18 to 20 year olds from a higher professional background started a higher education course, compared with 21%
of those from a lower working class background. This is one of the largest class inequalities reported in State of the Nation 2023.

A similar percentage of 18 to 20 year olds from higher working class (34%), intermediate (35%) and
lower professional (38%) backgrounds began studying in higher education in 2021.

## Section
By socio-economic background

## Chart: Single-bar
{
    "code": "IN22",
    "title": "Percentage of 18 to 20 year olds enrolled in higher education, by socio-economic background (UK, 2021)",
    "tooltipTitle": "",
    "data": "/static/data/indicators/IN22_overview-20230327.csv",
    "height": 450,
    "type": "bary",
    "xkey": "SEB",
    "ykey": "Value",
    "zkey": "SEB",
    "scale": "%",
    "rounding": "0dp",
    "lowerConfidence": "LCI",
    "upperConfidence": "UCI",
    "xgrid": false,
    "ygrid": true,
    "yticks": 5,
    "legend": true,
    "colourScheme": ["#1a9e1c", "#00703c", "#eb652e", "#0096ff", "#0f265c", "#808080"],
    "margin": [0, 0, 0, 0],
    "textLabels": "center",
    "labelColour": "#fff",
    "dataTable": "/static/pre-processed-csvs/IN22-entry-to-higher-education--by-SEB--table-format.csv",
    "disableJavascriptAlterationOfDataTable": true,
    "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
    "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1]
}

## Section
About the data

## Text
### Data source
Office for National Statistics, Labour Force Survey (LFS), 2021

### Time period
2021

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the percentage of 18 to 20 year olds in the UK who began studying a higher education course in 2021. 

### Things you need to know
Data used is weighted using LFS probability weights. 

The error bars show 95% confidence intervals. These intervals show where we expect the true value from a population to
be 95% of the time. For example, a confidence interval with the range of values from 5 to 10 implies that there is a
95% chance that the true population value is between 5 and 10, and a 5% chance that it is outside of this range.
The narrower the confidence interval or range, the more precise the estimate. Read more about
[confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals)

### Type of data
Survey data

Read more in State of the Nation 2023 on GOV.UK.

## Section
Download the data

## Text
[Download full dataset (CSV)](/static/data/full-datasets/IN22-entry-to-higher-education--full-dataset.csv){: target="_blank" class="download" }
