son/content/drivers_of_social_mobility/composite_indices/labour_market_opportunities_for_young_people/1.0.md, before:

---
title: Labour market opportunities for young people
date: 2024-09-11
change_history: First published
---

Data on labour market opportunities for 16 to 29 year olds across the UK,  measured by their occupation level and unemployment rate. This index shows which areas offer more or less favourable employment opportunities for young people.

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Index of 'labour market opportunities for young people', by local authority (UK)

        ::: inset_text classes="govuk-!-margin-top-3"
            [203 local authority areas in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area/latest#list-of-uk-regions)
            are put into 5 categories based on their ‘index of labour market opportunities’ composite scores.
            The categories are not equally sized – the middle category is larger because most local authorities are very near the average.
            Areas with the highest scores have the most favourable labour market opportunities.
        :::

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "CI",
                "title": "Index of 'labour market opportunities for young people', by local authority (UK)",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/UK203regions-simplify2percent.topojson",
                "data": "1.0/CI-1.0-labour-market-opportunities--by-region--chart-format.csv",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "Newname",
                "quantile": "group",
                "groupLabels": ["Least Favourable","Unfavourable","Middle Group","Favourable","Most Favourable"],
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "zero": false,
                "background": false,
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "hideCaterpillar": true,
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Index of 'labour market opportunities for young people', by local authority (UK)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/CI-1.0-labour-market-opportunities--by-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2, 0]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## Summary main findings
Data for 2014 to 2022 shows that the ‘north-south divide’ for young people's labour market opportunities was clearer than it was for [conditions of childhood](/drivers_of_social_mobility/composite_indices/conditions_of_childhood/latest). 

The most favourable labour market opportunities were in some London boroughs and Bristol. This means young people living there were:

* more likely to be in professional occupations
* less likely to be in working class occupations
* less likely to be unemployed

There were fewer local authorities in Scotland and the north west of England among the areas with favourable opportunities. No local authorities in Wales were classed as having favourable opportunities.

Areas with unfavourable opportunities include older industrial and port areas in the north and the midlands, such as Birmingham, Hartlepool, and Sunderland, as well as some mainly rural areas such as Northumberland and the Shetland Islands.

---

## About the data

### Data source(s)
Labour Force Survey (LFS), Office for National Statistics

### Time period
2014 to 2022 combined

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
This page combines data from the following drivers into a single 'composite' score:

* [Youth unemployment](/drivers_of_social_mobility/work_opportunities_for_young_people/youth_unemployment/latest) – data on unemployment rates for 16 to 29 year olds
* [Type of employment opportunities for young people](/drivers_of_social_mobility/work_opportunities_for_young_people/type_of_employment_opportunities_for_young_people/latest) – data on young people in working class and professional occupational levels

### Things you need to know
Areas are based on where respondents lived at the time they were surveyed, not where they grew up.

To increase the number of survey respondents, we have combined the ‘higher’ and ‘lower’ professional classes into a single category. We have done the same with the ‘higher’ and ‘lower’ working classes.

Data constraints mean that Northern Ireland has to be treated as a single unit. Local authorities have had to be combined in a few other cases.


### Type of data
Survey data

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="1.0/CI-1.0-labour-market-opportunities--full-dataset.csv" :::

Commit message:

Updated Labour market opportunities CI with Z-scores lines

son/content/drivers_of_social_mobility/composite_indices/labour_market_opportunities_for_young_people/1.0.md, after:

---
title: Labour market opportunities for young people
date: 2024-09-11
change_history: First published
---

Data on labour market opportunities for 16 to 29 year olds across the UK,  measured by their occupation level and unemployment rate. This index shows which areas offer more or less favourable employment opportunities for young people.

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Index of 'labour market opportunities for young people', by local authority (UK)

        ::: inset_text classes="govuk-!-margin-top-3"
            [203 local authority areas in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area/latest#list-of-uk-regions)
            are put into 5 categories based on their ‘index of labour market opportunities’ composite scores.
            The categories are not equally sized – the middle category is larger because most local authorities are very near the average.
            Areas with the highest scores have the most favourable labour market opportunities.
        :::

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "CI",
                "title": "Index of 'labour market opportunities for young people', by local authority (UK)",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/UK203regions-simplify2percent.topojson",
                "data": "1.0/CI-1.0-labour-market-opportunities--by-region--chart-format.csv",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "Newname",
                "quantile": "group",
                "groupLabels": ["Least Favourable","Unfavourable","Middle Group","Favourable","Most Favourable"],
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "zero": false,
                "background": false,
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "hideCaterpillar": true,
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Index of 'labour market opportunities for young people', by local authority (UK)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/CI-1.0-labour-market-opportunities--by-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2, 0]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## Summary main findings
Data for 2014 to 2022 shows that the ‘north-south divide’ for young people's labour market opportunities was clearer than it was for [conditions of childhood](/drivers_of_social_mobility/composite_indices/conditions_of_childhood/latest). 

The most favourable labour market opportunities were in some London boroughs and Bristol. This means young people living there were:

* more likely to be in professional occupations
* less likely to be in working class occupations
* less likely to be unemployed

There were fewer local authorities in Scotland and the north west of England among the areas with favourable opportunities. No local authorities in Wales were classed as having favourable opportunities.

Areas with unfavourable opportunities include older industrial and port areas in the north and the midlands, such as Birmingham, Hartlepool, and Sunderland, as well as some mainly rural areas such as Northumberland and the Shetland Islands.

---

## About the data

### Data source(s)
Labour Force Survey (LFS), Office for National Statistics

### Time period
2014 to 2022 combined

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
This page combines data from the following drivers into a single 'composite' score:

* [Youth unemployment](/drivers_of_social_mobility/work_opportunities_for_young_people/youth_unemployment/latest) – data on unemployment rates for 16 to 29 year olds
* [Type of employment opportunities for young people](/drivers_of_social_mobility/work_opportunities_for_young_people/type_of_employment_opportunities_for_young_people/latest) – data on young people in working class and professional occupational levels

### Things you need to know
Areas are based on where respondents lived at the time they were surveyed, not where they grew up.

To increase the number of survey respondents, we have combined the ‘higher’ and ‘lower’ professional classes into a single category. We have done the same with the ‘higher’ and ‘lower’ working classes.

Data constraints mean that Northern Ireland has to be treated as a single unit. Local authorities have had to be combined in a few other cases.

The unit used for this index is the 'Z-score'. This is a type of statistical measurement which can be used to tell us how likely it is that a region is different to the UK average. 

The values shown are not percentages, and the difference between regions cannot be compared in percentage terms. 

The Z-scores are used to put regions into one of five groups, according to a set of thresholds for each group. Please see our [technical annex](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2024-local-to-national-mapping-opportunities-for-all/technical-annex) for more information on how each area was scored.

### Type of data
Survey data

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="1.0/CI-1.0-labour-market-opportunities--full-dataset.csv" :::
