---
title: Labour market opportunities for young people
date: 2025-12-18
change_history: 2025 changes
---

Data on labour market opportunities for 16 to 29 year olds across the UK, measured by their occupation level and unemployment rate over time. This index shows which areas offer more or less favourable employment opportunities for young people.

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Index of 'labour market opportunities for young people', by local authority (UK)

        ::: inset_text classes="govuk-!-margin-top-3"
            [205 local authority areas in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area/latest#list-of-uk-regions) are put into 7 categories based on their ‘index of labour market opportunities’ composite scores. The categories are not equally sized – the middle category is larger because most local authorities are very near the average. Areas with the highest scores have the most favourable labour market opportunities.
           
        :::

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "CI",
                "title": "Index of 'labour market opportunities for young people', by local authority (UK)",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/2025-UK205regions.json",
                "data": [{
                    "label": "2000 to 2005",
                    "data": "2.0/CI2-2.0-labour-market-opportunities-for-young-people--by-UK205regions--2000-to-2005--chart-format.csv"
                },
                {
                    "label": "2006 to 2011",
                    "data": "2.0/CI2-2.0-labour-market-opportunities-for-young-people--by-UK205regions--2006-to-2011--chart-format.csv"
                },
                {
                    "label": "2012 to 2017",
                    "data": "2.0/CI2-2.0-labour-market-opportunities-for-young-people--by-UK205regions--2012-to-2017--chart-format.csv"
                },
                {
                    "label": "2018 to 2024",
                    "data": "2.0/CI2-2.0-labour-market-opportunities-for-young-people--by-UK205regions--2018-to-2024--chart-format.csv"
                }
                ],
                "toggle": "radio",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "Newname",
                "quantile": "group_number",
                "groupLabels": [
                    "Least Favourable", "Unfavourable", "Lower Middling",
                    "Middling", "Upper Middling","Favourable","Most Favourable"
                    ],
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "sevenCategories",
                "zero": false,
                "background": false,
                "colourScheme": [
                    "#ca0020", "#f3a582", "#FFEBCC", "#ffffbf", "#C9E2F2", "#92c5de", "#0671b0"
                    ],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "hideCaterpillar": true,
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Index of 'labour market opportunities for young people', by local authority (UK)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/CI2-2.0-labour-market-opportunities-for-young-people--by-UK205regions--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2, 0, 2, 0, 2, 0, 2, 0],
                "dataTableNumberOfHeadingRows": 2
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## Summary main findings
Data for 2018 to 2024 combined shows that the ‘north-south divide’ for young people's labour market opportunities was clearer than it was for [conditions of childhood](/drivers_of_social_mobility/composite_indices/conditions_of_childhood/latest). 

The most favourable labour market opportunities were in some London boroughs, Bristol, and several areas in the South of England. This means young people living there were:

* more likely to be in professional occupations
* less likely to be in working class occupations
* more likely to have high earnings

However, some more rural areas in the South of England such as Cornwall, Devon, Wiltshire and Sussex had below-average scores. There were fewer local authorities with favourable opportunities in Scotland and the North West of England. In Scotland, both Edinburgh and Glasgow had above average scores, as did Manchester, Salford, and Trafford in the North West of England. Cardiff was the only local authority in Wales with a score above the average. 

Areas with unfavourable opportunities include:

* older industrial and port areas in the north, such as Stockton-on-Tees, North Lincolnshire and Middlesbrough
* some rural and island regions such as Argyll and Bute and Shetland Islands

When looking at changes over time, some rural areas in Scotland saw a decline in opportunities, while several Welsh council areas saw improvements. Greater distances to major urban centres in rural Scotland might make it harder for young people to find professional and higher-paid jobs.

---

## About the data

### Data source(s)
Labour Force Survey (LFS), Office for National Statistics

### Time period
* 2000 to 2005 combined
* 2006 to 2011 combined
* 2012 to 2017 combined
* 2018 to 2024 combined

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
This page combines data from the following drivers into a single 'composite' score:

* [Type of employment opportunities for young people](/drivers_of_social_mobility/work_opportunities_for_young_people/type_of_employment_opportunities_for_young_people/latest) – data on young people in working class and professional occupational levels
* [Earnings of young people](/drivers_of_social_mobility/work_opportunities_for_young_people/labour_market_earnings_of_young_people/latest) – data on labour market earnings for 16 to 29 year olds

### Things you need to know
Areas are based on where respondents lived at the time they were surveyed, not where they grew up.

To increase the number of survey respondents, we have combined:

* the ‘higher’ and ‘lower’ professional classes into a single category
* the same with the ‘higher’ and ‘lower’ working classes into a single category

Data constraints mean that Northern Ireland is treated as a single unit. Local authorities have been combined in a few other cases.

The unit used for this index is the 'Z-score'. This is a type of statistical measurement which can be used to tell us how likely it is that a region is different to the UK average. 

The values shown are not percentages, and the difference between regions cannot be compared in percentage terms. 

The Z-scores are used to put regions into one of 7 groups, according to a set of thresholds for each group. See our [technical annex](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2025-the-evolving-story-of-social-mobility-in-the-uk/technical-annex) for more information on how each area was scored.

We have used the LFS to produce the ‘earnings of young people’ driver in this composite index. This differs from the corresponding indicator in the Social Mobility Index, for which we use ASHE. This is due to a lack of granularity in the ASHE data. 

### Type of data
Survey data

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/CI2-2.0-labour-market-opportunities-for-young-people--full-dataset.csv" :::



