---
title: Availability of high-quality school education
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: TODO New data for 2024
---

Data on the scores of 15 year old pupils in the UK and internationally in reading, maths and science, over time.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

In 2022, UK pupils scored above the international average for OECD countries in reading, maths and science at age 15.

In both the UK and OECD countries, scores in reading and maths were lower in 2022 compared with 2018. Scores in science did not change significantly.

Pupils in the UK have scored at or above the OECD average since the early 2000s. 

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Average pupil attainment score in reading, maths and science, over time (UK and OECD average, 2003 to 2022 for reading and maths, 2006 to 2022 for science)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR22",
                "title": "Average pupil attainment score in reading, maths and science, over time (UK and OECD average, 2003 to 2022 for reading and maths, 2006 to 2022 for science)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": [{
                    "label": "Mathematics",
                    "data": "2.0/DR22-2.0-availability-of-high-quality-school-education--mathematics--chart-format.csv"
                }, {
                    "label": "Reading",
                    "data": "2.0/DR22-2.0-availability-of-high-quality-school-education--reading--chart-format.csv"
                }, {
                    "label": "Science",
                    "data": "2.0/DR22-2.0-availability-of-high-quality-school-education--science--chart-format.csv"
                }],
                "toggle": "radio",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "time_period",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "area_name",
                "sort": "time_period",
                "scale": "Average pupil attainment scores",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c"],
                "range": [450, 530],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 35,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff",
                "clickBehaviour": "fade"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Average pupil attainment score in reading, maths and science, over time (UK and OECD average, 2003 to 2022 for reading and maths, 2006 to 2022 for science)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR22-2.0-availability-of-high-quality-school-education--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
                "dataTableNumberOfHeadingRows": 2
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development), Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA), 2003 to 2022 mathematics, reading and science assessments

### Time period
2003 to 2022

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the performance of 15 year old students in maths, science and reading in the UK, over time. It also shows the international average, measured in [OECD countries](https://www.oecd.org/about/document/ratification-oecd-convention.htm).

### Things you need to know
Due to small sample sizes in the UK, the OECD advises against comparisons between the UK and other countries for the year 2003. There is no data available for the science assessment in 2003.

The data is an alternate measure of opportunities for high-quality school education. It evaluates education systems by their performance and compares them internationally.

PISA scores do not have a maximum or minimum. Instead, they are scaled so that the average score is around 500 points and one standard deviation is around 100 points. Read more about [PISA 2022 results](https://www.oecd.org/en/publications/pisa-2022-results-volume-i_53f23881-en.html).

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2024 on GOV.UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2024-local-to-national-mapping-opportunities-for-all).

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/DR22-2.0-availability-of-high-quality-school-education--full-dataset.csv" :::
