---
title: Business spending on research and development
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on business spending on research and development in UK regions between 2007 and 2018.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

UK median business spending on research and enterprise went up by 32% between 2007 and 2018.

Spending went down by 22% between 2007 and 2011, but then went up every year until 2015.
It reached its peak in 2017 and has stayed roughly the same since then.

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Ratio (relative to 2007) of business spending on research and development (UK, 2007 to 2018)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR52",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "2.0/DR52-2.0-business-spending-on-research-and-development--by-year--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "time_period",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "area_name",
                "sort": "time_period",
                "scale": "£bn",
                "rounding": "1dp",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticks": 7,
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca"],
                "range": [0, 35000000000],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 30
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Ratio (relative to 2007) of business spending on research and development (UK, 2007 to 2018)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR52-2.0-business-spending-on-research-and-development--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## By area

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Business spending on research and development, by region over time (UK, 2007 to 2018) {: class="govuk-!-margin-bottom-4"}

        [41 regions in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area#the-41-regions) are ranked from the lowest to highest spending.
        They are then divided into 5 equally-sized groups (‘quintiles’), from 1 (lowest) to 5 (highest).
        
        The regional estimates have a large margin of error – do not rank or compare specific regions.
        
        See the [composite indices](/social_mobility_by_area#composite-measures-by-region) for more precise estimates and to
        understand overall regional patterns.

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "DR52",
                "tooltipTitle": "Business spending on research and development",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/International_Territorial_Level_2_(January_2021)_UK_BUC.json",
                "data": "2.0/DR52-2.0-business-spending-on-research-and-development--by-ITL2-region--chart-format.csv",
                "toggle": "radio",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "ITL221NM",
                "scale": "£m",
                "multiply": 1000000,
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "background": "full",
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "domain": [0, 150000000],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "value",
                "ykey": "area_name",
                "sort": "-value",
                "xgrid": true,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticks": 4,
                "xtitle": "Expenditure in millions of pounds \n per 100,000 people (£m)",
                "legend": false,
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
                
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Business spending on research and development, by region over time (UK, 2007 to 2018)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR52-2.0-business-spending-on-research-and-development--by-ITL2-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy and Nesta Research & Development spatial data tool, 2021.

### Time period
2007 to 2018

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows changes in business spending on research and development in the UK between 2007 and 2018.
It also shows average spending for 41 regions of the UK.

### Things you need to know
Nesta data includes regional scores but not a national average figure.
To track changes over time, we use the broadband speed for the median UK area each year.

The median is the middle point of a range of numbers which are arranged in order.
In this case, the median area is the area ranked 21st out of the 41 regions in the UK.

### Type of data
Administrative data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2023 on GOV.UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2023-people-and-places).

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/DR52-2.0-business-spending-on-research-and-development--full-dataset.csv" :::
