---
title: Business spending on research and development
date: 2025-12-18
change_history: 2025 updates
---

Data on how much businesses spent on research and development (R&D) between 2014 and 2023.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

From 2014 to 2023, spending on research and development by UK businesses went up from £41.0 billion to £50.0 billion, after adjusting for inflation. It was highest in 2021 at £53.4 billion. 

In 2023, business spending on research and development was highest in Inner London West (£571.0 million for every 100,000 residents). It was lowest in Highlands and Islands (£7.8 million for every 100,000 residents). 

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Business spending on research and development, adjusted for inflation (UK, 2014 to 2023)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR52",
                "title": "Business spending on research and development, adjusted for inflation (UK, 2014 to 2023)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "3.0/DR52-3.0-business-spending-on-research-and-development--by-year--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "primary_split_value",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "area_name",
                "sort": "primary_split_value",
                "scale": "£bn",
                "multiply": 1000000000,
                "rounding": "1dp",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticks": 7,
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca"],
                "range": [35000000000, 55000000000],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 30
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Business spending on research and development, adjusted for inflation (UK, 2014 to 2023)",
                "dataTable": "3.0/DR52-3.0-business-spending-on-research-and-development--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## By area

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Business spending on research and development for every 100,000 people, by region (UK, 2023)

        ::: inset_text classes="govuk-!-margin-top-3"
            41 regions in the UK are ranked from the lowest to highest values. They are then divided into 5 equally-sized groups (‘quintiles’), from 1 (lowest) to 5 (highest).
                    
            The regional estimates have a large margin of error – do not rank or compare specific regions. See the [composite indices](/social_mobility_by_area#composite-measures-by-region) for more precise estimates and to understand overall regional patterns.
        :::

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "DR52",
                "title": "Business spending on research and development for every 100,000 people, by region (UK, 2023)",
                "tooltipTitle": "Business spending on R&D (£m per 100,000 people)",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/International_Territorial_Level_2_(January_2021)_UK_BUC.json",
                "data": "3.0/DR52-3.0-business-spending-on-research-and-development--by-ITL2-region--chart-format.csv",
                "toggle": "radio",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "primary_split_value",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "ITL221NM",
                "scale": "£m",
                "multiply": 1000000,
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "quantile": "secondary_split_value",
                "background": "full",
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "domain": [0, 600000000],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "value",
                "ykey": "primary_split_value",
                "sort": "-value",
                "xgrid": true,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticks": 4,
                "xtitle": "Expenditure in millions of pounds \n per 100,000 people (£m)",
                "legend": false,
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
                
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Business spending on research and development for every 100,000 people, by region (UK, 2023)",
                "dataTable": "3.0/DR52-3.0-business-spending-on-research-and-development--by-ITL2-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data sources
* Business Expenditure on R&D (BERD), Office for National Statistics
* Nomis population estimates, Office for National Statistics

### Time period
* 2014 to 2023 (By year)
* 2023 (By area)

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows how much UK businesses spent on research and development between 2014 and 2023. It also shows spending for every 100,000 people in 41 regions of the UK.

### Things you need to know
Data over time has been adjusted for inflation using the [GDP deflator](https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/gdp-deflators-at-market-prices-and-money-gdp-march-2023-quarterly-national-accounts), with 2023 as the base year. 

Regional data has been adjusted to account for population size. 

Population estimates for Northern Ireland are not available for 2023, so we have used 2022 estimates. Annual population changes are small and this is unlikely to affect the results. 

### Type of data
Administrative data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2025 on GOV.UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2025-the-evolving-story-of-social-mobility-in-the-uk).

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="3.0/DR52-3.0-business-spending-on-research-and-development--full-dataset.csv" :::
