---
title: Parental income
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---
Data on the real average (mean) hourly earnings of people with dependent children. 

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

In 2024, the average (mean) income of people with dependent children was £21.47 an hour.

Between 2018 and 2020, the figure went up, from £19.87 to £22.82. It fell between 2020 and 2023, from £22.82 to £21.31. It then increased slightly between 2023 and 2024.

In 2024, the mean income of people with dependent children was highest in west Inner London (£34.11 an hour). It was lowest in Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly (£16.97 an hour). 

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Mean hourly earnings, adjusted for inflation, of people with dependent children (UK, 2014 to 2024)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR15",
                "title": "Mean hourly earnings, adjusted for inflation, of people with dependent children (UK, 2014 to 2024)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "3.0/DR15-3.0-distribution-of-parental-occupation--by-year--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "secondary_split_value",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "primary_split_value",
                "sort": "secondary_split_value",
                "scale": "%",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticksSmallScreen": "abreviate",
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "reverseLegend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#1a9e1c", "#00703c", "#eb652e", "#0096ff", "#0f265c"],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 45,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff",
                "clickBehaviour": "filter"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Mean hourly earnings, adjusted for inflation, of people with dependent children (UK, 2014 to 2024)",
                "dataTable": "3.0/DR15-3.0-distribution-of-parental-occupation--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## By area

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Mean hourly earnings, adjusted for inflation, of people with dependent children, by region (UK, 2014 to 2024 combined)

        ::: inset_text classes="govuk-!-margin-top-3"
            41 regions in the UK are ranked from the lowest to highest values. They are then divided into 5 equally-sized groups (‘quintiles’), from 1 (lowest) to 5 (highest).
            
            The lines either side of the dots represent [confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals) – the range of values that the 'true' value for each region is highly likely to be within. In many cases the confidence intervals overlap. This suggests differences between specific regions may not be statistically significant.
            
            The regional estimates have a large margin of error – do not rank or compare specific regions. See the [composite indices](/social_mobility_by_area#composite-measures-by-region) for more precise estimates and to understand overall regional patterns.
        :::

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "DR15",
                "title": "Mean hourly earnings, adjusted for inflation, of people with dependent children, by region (UK, 2014 to 2024 combined)",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/International_Territorial_Level_2_(January_2021)_UK_BUC.json",
                "data": [{
                    "label": "Higher professional",
                    "data": "3.0/DR15-3.0-distribution-of-parental-occupation--by-ITL2-region--higher-professional--chart-format.csv",
                    "tooltipTitle": "Percentage of adults in a higher professional occupation",
                    "xtitle": "Percentage of adults in families with dependent \n children in higher professional occupations"
                }, {
                    "label": "Lower working",
                    "data": "3.0/DR15-3.0-distribution-of-parental-occupation--by-ITL2-region--lower-working--chart-format.csv",
                    "reversePolarity": true,
                    "tooltipTitle": "Mean hourly earnings",
                    "xtitle": "Percentage of adults in families with dependent \n children in lower working class occupations"
                }],
                "toggle": "radio",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "ITL221NM",
                "scale": "%",
                "lowerConfidence": "lci",
                "upperConfidence": "uci",
                "confidenceIntervals": "visible",
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "quantile": "category",
                "zero": false,
                "background": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "domain": [5, 35],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "value",
                "ykey": "area_name",
                "sort": "-value",
                "xgrid": true,
                "ygrid": true,
                "legend": false,
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
                
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Mean hourly earnings, adjusted for inflation, of people with dependent children, by region (UK, 2014 to 2024 combined)",
                "dataTable": "3.0/DR15-3.0-distribution-of-parental-occupation--by-ITL2-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Labour Force Survey (LFS), Office for National Statistics

### Time period
* 2014 to 2024 (By year)
* 2014 to 2024 combined (By area)

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the average (mean) hourly earnings of people in the UK with dependent children. 

This includes:

* opposite or same sex couples in marriages or civil partnerships
* opposite or same sex couples who live together
* single male or female parents

### Things you need to know
This page was published for the first time for State of the Nation 2025. 

Data is weighted using LFS income weights.

Earnings have been adjusted for inflation using 2024 as the base year.

The error bars show 95% confidence intervals. Read more about [confidence intervals].

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2025 on GOV.UK]().

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="3.0/DR15-3.0-distribution-of-parental-occupation--full-dataset.csv" :::
