---
title: Civic engagement
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: 2025 updates
---

Data on the percentage of people taking part in civic democratic processes in England.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

In the year to March 2024, 33.3% of people in England took part in at least one ‘civic democratic process’ in the 12 months before being surveyed. Civic democratic processes include signing a petition or going to a public rally.

In the 11 years to March 2024, levels of civic engagement were lowest in the year to March 2016, and the year to March 2024 (both 33.3%). They were highest in the year to March 2021 (41.3%).

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of people who took part in democratic processes in the last 12 months (England, 11 financial years to March 2024)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR41",
                "title": "Percentage of people who took part in democratic processes in the last 12 months (England, 10 years to March 2024)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "3.0/DR41-3.0-civic-engagement--by-year-gap--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "primary_split_value",
                "ykey": "value_for_chart",
                "zkey": "area_name",
                "sort": "primary_split_value",
                "scale": "%",
                "lowerConfidence": "lci",
                "upperConfidence": "uci",
                "confidenceIntervals": true,
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticksSmallScreen": "first-last",
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca"],
                "range": [0, 50],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 40,
                "rolloverBehaviour": "fade",
                "clickBehaviour": "isolate",
                "filterNaN": false
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of people who took part in democratic processes in the last 12 months (England, 10 years to March 2024)",
                "dataTable": "3.0/DR41-3.0-civic-engagement--by-year-gap--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport – Community Life Survey

### Time period
April 2013 to March 2024 (11 financial years)

### Geographic area
England

### What the data measures
The data shows the percentage of adults who took part in civic democratic processes in the 12 months before being surveyed, both in person and online. These include signing a petition or attending a public rally, but not voting.

Data is shown for 10 financial years. Financial years run from April to March – for example, the 2021 to 2022 financial year ran from April 2021 to March 2022.

### Things you need to know
Data for the 2021 to 2022 survey was collected from October 2021 to September 2022. There was no Community Life Survey release in 2022 to 2023. Data for the 2023 to 2024 survey was collected from October 2023 to March 2024. 

95% confidence intervals are only available for the following surveys:

* 2019 to 2020
* 2020 to 2021
* 2021 to 2022
* 2023 to 2024

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2025 on GOV.UK]().

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="3.0/DR41-3.0-civic-engagement--full-dataset.csv" :::
