son/content/drivers_of_social_mobility/work_opportunities_for_young_people/type_of_employment_opportunities_for_young_people/2.0.md, before:

---
title: Type of employment opportunities for young people
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on the occupational level of 22 to 29 year olds in the UK, from 2014 to 2021.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

From 2014 to 2021, the percentage of 22 to 29 year olds in professional and managerial jobs went up from 38% to 44%.

The percentage in working class jobs went down from 41% to 33%.
This was mainly due to the percentage in skilled manual work (‘higher working class’) going down from 25% to 17%.

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of 22 to 29 year olds in each of the 5 occupational classes, over time (UK, 2014 to 2021)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR33",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "2.0/DR33-2.0-type-of-employment-opportunities-for-young-people--by-year--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "time_period",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "category",
                "sort": "time_period",
                "scale": "%",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticksSmallScreen": "abreviate",
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "reverseLegend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#1a9e1c", "#00703c", "#eb652e", "#0096ff", "#0f265c", "#808080"],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 45,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff",
                "clickBehaviour": "filter"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of 22 to 29 year olds in each of the 5 occupational classes, over time (UK, 2014 to 2021)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR33-2.0-type-of-employment-opportunities-for-young-people--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## By area

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of 22 to 29 year olds in the higher professional and lower working occupations, by area (UK, 2018 to 2021 combined) {: class="govuk-!-margin-bottom-4"}

        [41 regions in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area#the-41-regions) are ranked from the lowest to highest percentages.
        They are then divided into 5 equally-sized groups (‘quintiles’), from 1 (lowest) to 5 (highest).
        
        The regional estimates have a large margin of error – do not rank or compare specific regions.
        
        The lines either side of the dots represent [confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals)
        – the range of values that the 'true' value for each region is highly likely to be within.
        In many cases the confidence intervals overlap.
        This suggests differences between specific regions may not be statistically significant.
        
        See the [composite indices](/social_mobility_by_area#composite-measures-by-region) for more precise estimates and to
        understand overall regional patterns.

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "DR33",
                "tooltipTitle": "Percentage of 22 to 29 year olds in occupations:",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/International_Territorial_Level_2_(January_2021)_UK_BUC.json",
                "data": [{
                    "label": "Lower working",
                    "data": "2.0/DR33-2.0-type-of-employment-opportunities-for-young-people--by-ITL2-region--lower-working--chart-format.csv",
                    "reversePolarity": true
                }, {
                    "label": "Higher professional",
                    "data": "2.0/DR33-2.0-type-of-employment-opportunities-for-young-people--by-ITL2-region--higher-professional--chart-format.csv"
                }],
                "toggle": "radio",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "ITL221NM",
                "scale": "%",
                "lowerConfidence": "lci",
                "upperConfidence": "uci",
                "confidenceIntervals": "visible",
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "quantile": "category",
                "zero": false,
                "background": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "domain": [0, 85],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "value",
                "ykey": "area_name",
                "sort": "-value",
                "xgrid": true,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xtitle": "Types of opportunities for young people (%)",
                "legend": false,
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
                
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of 22 to 29 year olds in the higher professional and lower working occupations, by area (UK, 2018 to 2021 combined)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR33-2.0-type-of-employment-opportunities-for-young-people--by-ITL2-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Office for National Statistics, Labour Force Survey

### Time period
2014 to 2021

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the occupation level of 22 to 29 year olds in the UK between 2014 and 2021. It also shows data by region.

Regions are based on where the people surveyed lived when they were growing up.

Rates are rounded to 1 decimal place.

### Things you need to know
The 5 social classes shown here are based on the National Statistics Socio-economic Classification (NS-SEC) as follows:

* NS-SEC level 1: higher professional
* NS-SEC level 2: lower professional
* NS-SEC levels 3 and 4: intermediate
* NS-SEC levels 5 and 6: higher working class
* NS-SEC levels 7 and 8: lower working class

Data is weighted using LFS probability weights.

A formal statistical test shows that, compared with 2014, access to the higher professional class has become significantly different since 2018.


### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2023 on GOV.UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2023-people-and-places).

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/DR33-2.0-type-of-employment-opportunities-for-young-people--full-dataset.csv" :::

Commit message:

Updated Type of employment opportunities for young people content 2.0.md

son/content/drivers_of_social_mobility/work_opportunities_for_young_people/type_of_employment_opportunities_for_young_people/2.0.md, after:

---
title: Type of employment opportunities for young people
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on the occupational level of 22 to 29 year olds in the UK, from 2014 to 2022.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

In the last decade, there has been an increase in professional employment opportunities for young people.

From 2014 to 2022, the percentage of 22 to 29 year olds in professional and managerial jobs went up from 38% to 46%.

The percentage in higher working class jobs (skilled manual work) went down from 25% to 16%.

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of 22 to 29 year olds in each of the 5 occupational classes, over time (UK, 2014 to 2022)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR33",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "2.0/DR33-2.0-type-of-employment-opportunities-for-young-people--by-year--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "time_period",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "category",
                "sort": "time_period",
                "scale": "%",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticksSmallScreen": "abreviate",
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "reverseLegend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#1a9e1c", "#00703c", "#eb652e", "#0096ff", "#0f265c", "#808080"],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 45,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff",
                "clickBehaviour": "filter"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of 22 to 29 year olds in each of the 5 occupational classes, over time (UK, 2014 to 2022)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR33-2.0-type-of-employment-opportunities-for-young-people--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## By area

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of 22 to 29 year olds in lower working and higher professional occupations, by area (UK, 2014 to 2022 combined) {: class="govuk-!-margin-bottom-4"}

        [41 regions in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area#the-41-regions) are ranked from the lowest to highest percentages.
        They are then divided into 5 equally-sized groups (‘quintiles’), from 1 (lowest) to 5 (highest).
        
        The regional estimates have a large margin of error – do not rank or compare specific regions.
        
        The lines either side of the dots represent [confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals)
        – the range of values that the 'true' value for each region is highly likely to be within.
        In many cases the confidence intervals overlap.
        This suggests differences between specific regions may not be statistically significant.
        
        See the [composite indices](/social_mobility_by_area#composite-measures-by-region) for more precise estimates and to
        understand overall regional patterns.

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "DR33",
                "tooltipTitle": "Percentage of 22 to 29 year olds in occupations:",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/International_Territorial_Level_2_(January_2021)_UK_BUC.json",
                "data": [{
                    "label": "Lower working",
                    "data": "2.0/DR33-2.0-type-of-employment-opportunities-for-young-people--by-ITL2-region--lower-working--chart-format.csv",
                    "reversePolarity": true
                }, {
                    "label": "Higher professional",
                    "data": "2.0/DR33-2.0-type-of-employment-opportunities-for-young-people--by-ITL2-region--higher-professional--chart-format.csv"
                }],
                "toggle": "radio",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "ITL221NM",
                "scale": "%",
                "lowerConfidence": "lci",
                "upperConfidence": "uci",
                "confidenceIntervals": "visible",
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "quantile": "category",
                "zero": false,
                "background": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "domain": [0, 85],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "value",
                "ykey": "area_name",
                "sort": "-value",
                "xgrid": true,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xtitle": "Types of opportunities for young people (%)",
                "legend": false,
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
                
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of 22 to 29 year olds in lower working and higher professional occupations, by area (UK, 2014 to 2022 combined)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR33-2.0-type-of-employment-opportunities-for-young-people--by-ITL2-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Office for National Statistics (ONS), Labour Force Survey (LFS)

### Time period
2014 to 2022

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the occupation level of employed 22 to 29 year olds in the UK between 2014 and 2022. It also shows data by region.

Regions are based on where the people surveyed lived when they were 14 years old.

### Things you need to know
The 5 social classes shown here are based on the National Statistics Socio-economic Classification (NS-SEC) as follows:

* NS-SEC level 1: higher professional
* NS-SEC level 2: lower professional
* NS-SEC levels 3 and 4: intermediate
* NS-SEC levels 5 and 6: higher working class
* NS-SEC levels 7 and 8: lower working class

Data is weighted using LFS person weights.

Due to rounding, some totals may not add up to 100%.

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2024 on GOV.UK].

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/DR33-2.0-type-of-employment-opportunities-for-young-people--full-dataset.csv" :::
