---
title: Type of employment opportunities for young people
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on the occupational level of 22 to 29 year olds in the UK, from 2014 to 2022.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

In the last decade, there has been an increase in professional employment opportunities for young people.

From 2014 to 2022:

* the percentage of 22 to 29 year olds in professional and managerial jobs went up from 38% to 46%
* the percentage in higher working class jobs (skilled manual work) went down from 25% to 16%

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of 22 to 29 year olds in each of the 5 occupational classes, over time (UK, 2014 to 2022)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR33",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "2.0/DR33-2.0-type-of-employment-opportunities-for-young-people--by-year--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "time_period",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "category",
                "sort": "time_period",
                "scale": "%",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticksSmallScreen": "abreviate",
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "reverseLegend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#1a9e1c", "#00703c", "#eb652e", "#0096ff", "#0f265c", "#808080"],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 45,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff",
                "clickBehaviour": "filter"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of 22 to 29 year olds in each of the 5 occupational classes, over time (UK, 2014 to 2022)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR33-2.0-type-of-employment-opportunities-for-young-people--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## By area

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of 22 to 29 year olds in lower working and higher professional occupations, by area (UK, 2014 to 2022 combined) {: class="govuk-!-margin-bottom-4"}

        [41 regions in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area#the-41-regions) are ranked from the lowest to highest percentages.
        They are then divided into 5 equally-sized groups (‘quintiles’), from 1 (lowest) to 5 (highest).
        
        The regional estimates have a large margin of error – do not rank or compare specific regions.
        
        The lines either side of the dots represent [confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals)
        – the range of values that the 'true' value for each region is highly likely to be within.
        In many cases the confidence intervals overlap.
        This suggests differences between specific regions may not be statistically significant.
        
        See the [composite indices](/social_mobility_by_area#composite-measures-by-region) for more precise estimates and to
        understand overall regional patterns.

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "DR33",
                "tooltipTitle": "Percentage of 22 to 29 year olds in occupations:",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/International_Territorial_Level_2_(January_2021)_UK_BUC.json",
                "data": [{
                    "label": "Lower working",
                    "data": "2.0/DR33-2.0-type-of-employment-opportunities-for-young-people--by-ITL2-region--lower-working--chart-format.csv",
                    "reversePolarity": true
                }, {
                    "label": "Higher professional",
                    "data": "2.0/DR33-2.0-type-of-employment-opportunities-for-young-people--by-ITL2-region--higher-professional--chart-format.csv"
                }],
                "toggle": "radio",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "ITL221NM",
                "scale": "%",
                "lowerConfidence": "lci",
                "upperConfidence": "uci",
                "confidenceIntervals": "visible",
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "quantile": "category",
                "zero": false,
                "background": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "domain": [0, 40],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "value",
                "ykey": "area_name",
                "sort": "-value",
                "xgrid": true,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticks": 5,
                "xtitle": "Types of opportunities for young people (%)",
                "legend": false,
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
                
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of 22 to 29 year olds in lower working and higher professional occupations, by area (UK, 2014 to 2022 combined)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR33-2.0-type-of-employment-opportunities-for-young-people--by-ITL2-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Office for National Statistics (ONS), Labour Force Survey (LFS)

### Time period
2014 to 2022

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the occupation level of employed 22 to 29 year olds in the UK between 2014 and 2022. It also shows data by region.

Regions are based on where the people surveyed lived when they were 14 years old.

### Things you need to know
Socio-economic background is based on the main earner’s occupation when the respondent was 14 years old. If there was no earner in the family, respondents are included in the lower working class category.

Data is weighted using LFS person weights.

Due to rounding, some totals may not add up to 100%.

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2024 on GOV.UK].

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/DR33-2.0-type-of-employment-opportunities-for-young-people--full-dataset.csv" :::
