son/content/drivers_of_social_mobility/conditions_of_childhood/distribution_of_parental_education/2.0.md, before:

---
title: Distribution of parental education
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on the highest qualification levels of parents in families with dependent children.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

42% of adults in families with dependent children had a degree or above in 2022, up from 30% in 2014.

30% had GCSEs or below in 2022, down from 33% in 2014.

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of adults in families with dependent children in different education levels, over time (UK, 2014 to 2022)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR13",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "2.0/DR13-2.0-distribution-of-parental-education--by-year--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "time_period",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "category",
                "sort": "time_period",
                "scale": "%",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticksSmallScreen": "abreviate",
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "reverseLegend": true,
                "colourScheme":  ["#28a197", "#d53880", "#4c2c92", "#d4351c", "#5694ca"],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 45,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff",
                "clickBehaviour": "filter"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of adults in families with dependent children in different education levels, over time (UK, 2014 to 2022)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR13-2.0-distribution-of-parental-education--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## By area

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of adults in families with dependent children with a higher education qualification, by region (UK, 2014 to 2021 combined) {: class="govuk-!-margin-bottom-4"}

        [41 regions in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area#the-41-regions) are ranked from the lowest to highest percentages.
        They are then divided into 5 equally-sized groups (‘quintiles’), from 1 (lowest) to 5 (highest).
        
        The regional estimates have a large margin of error – do not rank or compare specific regions.
        
        The lines either side of the dots represent [confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals)
        – the range of values that the 'true' value for each region is highly likely to be within.
        In many cases the confidence intervals overlap.
        This suggests differences between specific regions may not be statistically significant.
        
        See the [composite indices](/social_mobility_by_area#composite-measures-by-region) for more precise estimates and to
        understand overall regional patterns.

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "DR13",
                "tooltipTitle": "Percentage of adults with a higher education qualification",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/International_Territorial_Level_2_(January_2021)_UK_BUC.json",
                "data": "2.0/DR13-2.0-distribution-of-parental-education--by-ITL2-region--chart-format.csv",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "ITL221NM",
                "scale": "%",
                "lowerConfidence": "lci",
                "upperConfidence": "uci",
                "confidenceIntervals": "visible",
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "quantile": "category",
                "zero": false,
                "background": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "domain": [20, 70],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "value",
                "ykey": "area_name",
                "sort": "-value",
                "xgrid": true,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xtitle": "Percentage of adults in families with dependent \n children with a higher education qualification",
                "legend": false,
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
                
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of adults in families with dependent children with a higher education qualification, by region (UK, 2014 to 2021 combined)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR13-2.0-distribution-of-parental-education--by-ITL2-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Labour Force Survey (LFS), Office for National Statistics.

### Time period
2014 to 2022

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the education levels of adults in families with dependent children. Dependent children are classed as all children aged 15 and under, and 16 to 18 year olds in full-time education. Adult respondents aged under 21 years old are not included.

The education levels are:

* lower level (below CSE grade 1)
* O level, GCSE and equivalent
* A level and equivalent
* further education (below degree level)
* higher education (degree level and above)

### Things you need to know
The data for people with below degree level qualifications in 2022 is not directly comparable to previous years. This is due to a change in the LFS methodology.

The median age of survey respondents was 40 years old. The majority of respondents are likely to be the parents or carers of dependent children. Some could be adults living in homes with parents who have dependent children.

Data is weighted using LFS person weights.

The error bars show 95% confidence intervals. Read more about [confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals)

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2024 on GOV.UK].

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/DR13-2.0-distribution-of-parental-education--full-dataset.csv" :::

Commit message:

Updated Distribution of parental education as more SMC feedback

son/content/drivers_of_social_mobility/conditions_of_childhood/distribution_of_parental_education/2.0.md, after:

---
title: Distribution of parental education
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on the highest qualification levels of parents in families with dependent children.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

The qualifications of young people’s parents have improved over time.

42% of adults in families with dependent children had a degree or above in 2022, up from 30% in 2014.

While more children are growing up in families educated to degree level, there is still a considerable percentage of families whose highest qualification is GCSE or below – 30% in 2022 (down from 33% in 2014).

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of adults in families with dependent children in different education levels, over time (UK, 2014 to 2022)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR13",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "2.0/DR13-2.0-distribution-of-parental-education--by-year--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "time_period",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "category",
                "sort": "time_period",
                "scale": "%",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticksSmallScreen": "abreviate",
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "reverseLegend": true,
                "colourScheme":  ["#28a197", "#d53880", "#4c2c92", "#d4351c", "#5694ca"],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 45,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff",
                "clickBehaviour": "filter"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of adults in families with dependent children in different education levels, over time (UK, 2014 to 2022)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR13-2.0-distribution-of-parental-education--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## By area

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of adults in families with dependent children with a higher education qualification, by region (UK, 2014 to 2021 combined) {: class="govuk-!-margin-bottom-4"}

        [41 regions in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area#the-41-regions) are ranked from the lowest to highest percentages.
        They are then divided into 5 equally-sized groups (‘quintiles’), from 1 (lowest) to 5 (highest).
        
        The regional estimates have a large margin of error – do not rank or compare specific regions.
        
        The lines either side of the dots represent [confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals)
        – the range of values that the 'true' value for each region is highly likely to be within.
        In many cases the confidence intervals overlap.
        This suggests differences between specific regions may not be statistically significant.
        
        See the [composite indices](/social_mobility_by_area#composite-measures-by-region) for more precise estimates and to
        understand overall regional patterns.

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "DR13",
                "tooltipTitle": "Percentage of adults with a higher education qualification",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/International_Territorial_Level_2_(January_2021)_UK_BUC.json",
                "data": "2.0/DR13-2.0-distribution-of-parental-education--by-ITL2-region--chart-format.csv",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "ITL221NM",
                "scale": "%",
                "lowerConfidence": "lci",
                "upperConfidence": "uci",
                "confidenceIntervals": "visible",
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "quantile": "category",
                "zero": false,
                "background": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "domain": [20, 70],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "value",
                "ykey": "area_name",
                "sort": "-value",
                "xgrid": true,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xtitle": "Percentage of adults in families with dependent \n children with a higher education qualification",
                "legend": false,
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
                
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of adults in families with dependent children with a higher education qualification, by region (UK, 2014 to 2021 combined)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR13-2.0-distribution-of-parental-education--by-ITL2-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Labour Force Survey (LFS), Office for National Statistics.

### Time period
2014 to 2022

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the education levels of adults in families with dependent children. Dependent children are classed as all children aged 15 and under, and 16 to 18 year olds in full-time education. Adult respondents aged under 21 years old are not included.

The education levels are:

* lower level (below CSE grade 1)
* O level, GCSE and equivalent
* A level and equivalent
* further education (below degree level)
* higher education (degree level and above)

### Things you need to know
The data for people with below degree level qualifications in 2022 is not directly comparable to previous years. This is due to a change in the LFS methodology.

The median age of survey respondents was 40 years old. The majority of respondents are likely to be the parents or carers of dependent children. Some could be adults living in homes with parents who have dependent children.

Data is weighted using LFS person weights.

The error bars show 95% confidence intervals. Read more about [confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals)

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2024 on GOV.UK].

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/DR13-2.0-distribution-of-parental-education--full-dataset.csv" :::
