son/content/drivers_of_social_mobility/composite_indices/innovation_and_growth/1.0.md, before:

---
title: Innovation and growth
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on how favourable 203 local authorities in the UK are for innovation and growth – this is measured by each area’s broadband speed, business spending on research and development, and percentage of residents with postgraduate qualifications.

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### ‘Index of innovation and growth’, by local authority (UK)
        
        [203 local authority areas in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area/latest#list-of-uk-regions) are put into 5 groups  – from ‘most favourable’ to ‘least favourable’ conditions – based on their ‘index of innovation and growth’ composite scores. The categories are not equally sized – the middle category is larger because most local authorities are very near the average.

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "CI",
                "title": "‘Index of innovation and growth’, by local authority (UK)",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/International_Territorial_Level_2_(January_2021)_UK_BUC.json",
                "data": "1.0/CI-1.0-innovation-and-growth--by-region--chart-format.csv",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "ITL221NM",
                "quantile": "group",
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "zero": false,
                "reversePolarity": true,
                "background": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "domain": [-3, 4],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "value",
                "ykey": "area_name",
                "sort": "-value",
                "xgrid": true,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xtitle": "",
                "legend": false,
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "‘Index of innovation and growth’, by local authority (UK)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/CI-1.0-innovation-and-growth--by-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2, 0]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## Summary main findings
The 6 ‘most favourable’ local authority areas for innovation and growth are all in London:

* Camden and City of London
* Hammersmith and Fulham
* Kensington and Chelsea
* Richmond upon Thames
* Wandsworth
* Westminster

Many of the local authorities with ‘favourable’ environments for innovation and growth are in London and the ‘home counties’ (the counties surrounding London).

There are also favourable environments in:

* Cambridgeshire
* Cardiff
* Milton Keynes
* Southampton
* Warrington

Many local authorities with the least favourable environments for innovation and growth are in rural areas. These include:

* Cornwall and Isles of Scilly
* parts of the Scottish Highlands and islands
* parts of Wales

---

## About the data

### Data source(s)

* Office of Communications (Ofcom), Connected Nations Report (2023)
* Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, and Nesta (National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts) Research and Development spatial data tool, 2021
* Office for National Statistics, Labour Force Survey (LFS)

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
This page combines data from the following 3 indicators into a single 'composite' score:

* [Broadband speed](/drivers_of_social_mobility/research_and_development_environment/broadband_speed/latest)
* [Business spending on research and development](/drivers_of_social_mobility/research_and_development_environment/business_spending_on_research_and_development/latest)
* [Postgraduate education](https://dev.social-mobility.data.gov.uk/drivers_of_social_mobility/research_and_development_environment/postgraduate_education/latest)

### Things you need to know
Areas are based on where respondents live now, not where they grew up.

### Type of data
* Survey data (LFS)
* Administrative data (Nesta, Ofcom)

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="1.0/CI-1.0-innovation-and-growth--full-dataset.csv" :::

Commit message:

EHD-1311: Inset text: Use new component for map help text on composite indices

son/content/drivers_of_social_mobility/composite_indices/innovation_and_growth/1.0.md, after:

---
title: Innovation and growth
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on how favourable 203 local authorities in the UK are for innovation and growth – this is measured by each area’s broadband speed, business spending on research and development, and percentage of residents with postgraduate qualifications.

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### ‘Index of innovation and growth’, by local authority (UK)
        
        ::: inset_text classes="govuk-!-margin-top-3"
            [203 local authority areas in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area/latest#list-of-uk-regions)
            are put into 5 groups  – from ‘most favourable’ to ‘least favourable’ conditions – based on their ‘index of innovation and growth’ composite scores.
            The categories are not equally sized – the middle category is larger because most local authorities are very near the average.
        :::

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "CI",
                "title": "‘Index of innovation and growth’, by local authority (UK)",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/International_Territorial_Level_2_(January_2021)_UK_BUC.json",
                "data": "1.0/CI-1.0-innovation-and-growth--by-region--chart-format.csv",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "ITL221NM",
                "quantile": "group",
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "zero": false,
                "reversePolarity": true,
                "background": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "domain": [-3, 4],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "value",
                "ykey": "area_name",
                "sort": "-value",
                "xgrid": true,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xtitle": "",
                "legend": false,
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "‘Index of innovation and growth’, by local authority (UK)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/CI-1.0-innovation-and-growth--by-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2, 0]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## Summary main findings
The 6 ‘most favourable’ local authority areas for innovation and growth are all in London:

* Camden and City of London
* Hammersmith and Fulham
* Kensington and Chelsea
* Richmond upon Thames
* Wandsworth
* Westminster

Many of the local authorities with ‘favourable’ environments for innovation and growth are in London and the ‘home counties’ (the counties surrounding London).

There are also favourable environments in:

* Cambridgeshire
* Cardiff
* Milton Keynes
* Southampton
* Warrington

Many local authorities with the least favourable environments for innovation and growth are in rural areas. These include:

* Cornwall and Isles of Scilly
* parts of the Scottish Highlands and islands
* parts of Wales

---

## About the data

### Data source(s)

* Office of Communications (Ofcom), Connected Nations Report (2023)
* Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, and Nesta (National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts) Research and Development spatial data tool, 2021
* Office for National Statistics, Labour Force Survey (LFS)

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
This page combines data from the following 3 indicators into a single 'composite' score:

* [Broadband speed](/drivers_of_social_mobility/research_and_development_environment/broadband_speed/latest)
* [Business spending on research and development](/drivers_of_social_mobility/research_and_development_environment/business_spending_on_research_and_development/latest)
* [Postgraduate education](https://dev.social-mobility.data.gov.uk/drivers_of_social_mobility/research_and_development_environment/postgraduate_education/latest)

### Things you need to know
Areas are based on where respondents live now, not where they grew up.

### Type of data
* Survey data (LFS)
* Administrative data (Nesta, Ofcom)

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="1.0/CI-1.0-innovation-and-growth--full-dataset.csv" :::
