son/content/mobility_outcomes/wealth/level_of_wealth.md, before:

## Code
MO51

## Title
Level of wealth

## Summary
Data on the amount of wealth people have at different ages, and on the relationship in wealth between people and their parents.

## Subtitle
Summary main findings

## Text
Data from 2016 to 2020 shows that older people had more wealth than younger people, particularly from property and pensions.

Estimated average total wealth by age group was:

* £66,000 for 25 to 34 year olds
* £196,000 for 35 to 44 year olds
* £364,000 for 45 to 54 year olds
* £575,000 for 55 to 64 year olds

## Section
By age group and type of wealth

## Chart: Stacked-bar
{
    "code": "MO51",
    "title": "Wealth by age group and type of wealth (England, Scotland and Wales, 2016 to 2020 combined)",
    "tooltipTitle": "",
    "data": "/static/data/indicators/MO51_overview-20230626.csv",
    "height": 450,
    "type": "liney",
    "xkey": "Age",
    "ykey": "Value",
    "zkey": "Category",
    "sort": "Age",
    "scale": "££",
    "lowerConfidence": "LCI",
    "upperConfidence": "UCI",
    "xgrid": false,
    "ygrid": true,
    "yticks": 5,
    "legend": true,
    "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c", "#4c2c92", "#d53880", "#28a197", "#b58840", "#505a5f", "#f499be", "#85994b", "#6f72af"],
    "margin": [0, 0, 0, 0],
    "clickBehaviour": "filter",
    "dataTable": "/static/pre-processed-csvs/MO51-level-of-wealth--by-age-and-type-of-wealth--table-format.csv",
    "disableJavascriptAlterationOfDataTable": true,
    "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
    "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]
}

## Section
About the data

## Text
### Data source
Office for National Statistics, Wealth and Assets Survey (WAS)

### Time period
2016 to 2020 (combined)

### Geographic area
England, Scotland and Wales

### What the data measures
The data shows wealth estimates for 25 to 64 year olds in England, Scotland and Wales.

Wealth is the value of different types of assets owned by households minus any liabilities, such as mortgages.

It includes:

* property wealth, including the value of property minus any mortgage owed
* pension wealth, including the value of occupational and private pensions
* physical wealth, including the value of household contents, valuables and vehicles
* financial wealth, including the value of financial assets

### Things you need to know
Data is adjusted for inflation, and weighted using WAS individual weights.

### Type of data
Survey data

Read more in State of the Nation 2023 on GOV.UK.

## Section
Download the data

## Text
[Download full dataset (CSV)](/static/data/full-datasets/MO51-level-of-wealth--full-dataset.csv){: target="_blank" class="download" }

Commit message:

EHD-704: Content changes following SMC review: Add in the "Confidence intervals" statement

son/content/mobility_outcomes/wealth/level_of_wealth.md, after:

## Code
MO51

## Title
Level of wealth

## Summary
Data on the amount of wealth people have at different ages, and on the relationship in wealth between people and their parents.

## Subtitle
Summary main findings

## Text
Data from 2016 to 2020 shows that older people had more wealth than younger people, particularly from property and pensions.

Estimated average total wealth by age group was:

* £66,000 for 25 to 34 year olds
* £196,000 for 35 to 44 year olds
* £364,000 for 45 to 54 year olds
* £575,000 for 55 to 64 year olds

## Section
By age group and type of wealth

## Chart: Stacked-bar
{
    "code": "MO51",
    "title": "Wealth by age group and type of wealth (England, Scotland and Wales, 2016 to 2020 combined)",
    "tooltipTitle": "",
    "data": "/static/data/indicators/MO51_overview-20230626.csv",
    "height": 450,
    "type": "liney",
    "xkey": "Age",
    "ykey": "Value",
    "zkey": "Category",
    "sort": "Age",
    "scale": "££",
    "lowerConfidence": "LCI",
    "upperConfidence": "UCI",
    "xgrid": false,
    "ygrid": true,
    "yticks": 5,
    "legend": true,
    "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c", "#4c2c92", "#d53880", "#28a197", "#b58840", "#505a5f", "#f499be", "#85994b", "#6f72af"],
    "margin": [0, 0, 0, 0],
    "clickBehaviour": "filter",
    "dataTable": "/static/pre-processed-csvs/MO51-level-of-wealth--by-age-and-type-of-wealth--table-format.csv",
    "disableJavascriptAlterationOfDataTable": true,
    "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
    "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]
}

## Section
About the data

## Text
### Data source
Office for National Statistics, Wealth and Assets Survey (WAS)

### Time period
2016 to 2020 (combined)

### Geographic area
England, Scotland and Wales

### What the data measures
The data shows wealth estimates for 25 to 64 year olds in England, Scotland and Wales.

Wealth is the value of different types of assets owned by households minus any liabilities, such as mortgages.

It includes:

* property wealth, including the value of property minus any mortgage owed
* pension wealth, including the value of occupational and private pensions
* physical wealth, including the value of household contents, valuables and vehicles
* financial wealth, including the value of financial assets

### Things you need to know
Data is adjusted for inflation, and weighted using WAS individual weights.

The error bars show 95% confidence intervals. These intervals show where we expect the true value from a population to
be 95% of the time. For example, a confidence interval with the range of values from 5 to 10 implies that there is a
95% chance that the true population value is between 5 and 10, and a 5% chance that it is outside of this range.
The narrower the confidence interval or range, the more precise the estimate. Read more about
[confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals)

### Type of data
Survey data

Read more in State of the Nation 2023 on GOV.UK.

## Section
Download the data

## Text
[Download full dataset (CSV)](/static/data/full-datasets/MO51-level-of-wealth--full-dataset.csv){: target="_blank" class="download" }
