---
title: Broadband speed
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on median broadband speeds in UK regions between 2014 and 2019.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

In 2019, the median broadband speed in the UK was 3 times as fast as in 2014.

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### TODO (probably % of country with gigabit)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR51",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "2.0/DR51-2.0-broadband-speed--by-year-and-country--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "time_period",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "area_name",
                "sort": "time_period",
                "scale": "%",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticks": 7,
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c", "#4c2c92", "#d53880", "#28a197"],
                "range": [0, 100],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 30
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "TODO (probably % of country with gigabit)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR51-2.0-broadband-speed--by-year-and-country--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## By area

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### TODO (probably % of properties that can get gigabit) {: class="govuk-!-margin-bottom-4"}

        [41 regions in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area#the-41-regions) are ranked from the lowest to highest broadband speed.
        They are then divided into 5 equally-sized groups (‘quintiles’), from 1 (lowest) to 5 (highest).
        
        The regional estimates have a large margin of error – do not rank or compare specific regions.
        
        See the [composite indices](/social_mobility_by_area#composite-measures-by-region) for more precise estimates and to
        understand overall regional patterns.

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "DR51",
                "tooltipTitle": "Median broadband speed",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/International_Territorial_Level_2_(January_2021)_UK_BUC.json",
                "data": "2.0/DR51-2.0-broadband-speed--by-ITL2-region--chart-format.csv",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "ITL221NM",
                "scale": "%",
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "quantile": "category",
                "background": "full",
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "domain": [20, 100],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "value",
                "ykey": "area_name",
                "sort": "-value",
                "xgrid": true,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xtitle": "Gigabit availability (% premises)",
                "legend": false,
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
                
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "TODO (% of properties that can get gigabit)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR51-2.0-broadband-speed--by-ITL2-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy and Nesta Research & Development spatial data tool, 2021.

### Time period
2014 to 2019

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows changes in median broadband speed in the UK between 2014 and 2019.
It also shows the broadband speed for 41 regions of the UK.

### Things you need to know
Nesta data includes regional scores but not a national average figure.
To track changes over time, we use the broadband speed for the median UK area each year.

The median is the middle point of a range of numbers which are arranged in order.
In this case, the median area is the area ranked 21st out of the 41 regions in the UK.

### Type of data
Administrative data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2023 on GOV.UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2023-people-and-places).

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/DR51-2.0-broadband-speed--full-dataset.csv" :::
