---
title: Entry to higher education
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on the percentage of 18 to 20 year olds studying for a full-time first degree, by year and socio-economic background.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

In 2022, 32% of 18 to 20 year olds were studying in higher education (HE), up from 27% in 2014. 

47% of 18 to 20 year olds from higher professional backgrounds were studying in HE. This was higher than those from lower professional (37%), higher working (34%), intermediate (29%) and lower working (21%) backgrounds.

The HE entry rate for 18 to 20 year olds from higher professional backgrounds was 2.2 times higher than those from lower working class backgrounds. In 2014, it was 3.9 times higher.

---

## By socio-economic background

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By socio-economic background" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of 18 to 20 year olds enrolled in higher education, by socio-economic background (UK, 2022)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By socio-economic background"
            {
                "code": "IN22",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "1.0/IN22_overview-20230327.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "SEB",
                "ykey": "Value",
                "zkey": "SEB",
                "scale": "%",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "lowerConfidence": "LCI",
                "upperConfidence": "UCI",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticksSmallScreen": "abreviate",
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#1a9e1c", "#00703c", "#eb652e", "#0096ff", "#0f265c", "#808080"],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 40,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By socio-economic background" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of 18 to 20 year olds enrolled in higher education, by socio-economic background (UK, 2022)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/IN22-entry-to-higher-education--by-SEB--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By socio-economic background" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Office for National Statistics, Labour Force Survey (LFS) 2022

### Time period
2022

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the percentage of 18 to 20 year olds in the UK who began studying in higher education (HE) from 2014 to 2022. HE includes degree level qualifications and foundation degrees. 

### Things you need to know
The data is weighted using the LFS person weights. The error bars show 95% [confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals).

The ratios are the percentage of 18 to 20 year olds from higher professional backgrounds in HE, divided by the percentage from lower working backgrounds.

A logistic regression model was used to test differences in the likelihood of being in HE by socio-economic background. The difference in entry rates between people from lower professional and higher professional backgrounds was only significant at the 10% level.

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2024 on GOV.UK].

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="1.0/IN22-entry-to-higher-education--full-dataset.csv" :::
