son/content/intermediate_outcomes/routes_into_work_(16_to_29_years)/entry_to_higher_education/2.0.md, before:

---
title: Entry to higher education
date: yyyy-mm-dd
change_history: First published
---

Data on the percentage of 18 to 20 year olds studying for a full-time first degree, by socio-economic background.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

34% of all 18 to 20 year olds were studying in higher education in 2021.

51% of 18 to 20 year olds from a higher professional background started a higher education course, compared with 21%
of those from a lower working class background. This is one of the largest class inequalities reported in State of the Nation 2023.

A similar percentage of 18 to 20 year olds from higher working class (34%), intermediate (35%) and
lower professional (38%) backgrounds began studying in higher education in 2021.

---

## By socio-economic background

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By socio-economic background" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of 18 to 20 year olds enrolled in higher education, by socio-economic background (UK, 2021)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By socio-economic background"
            {
                "code": "IN22",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "1.0/IN22_overview-20230327.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "SEB",
                "ykey": "Value",
                "zkey": "SEB",
                "scale": "%",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "lowerConfidence": "LCI",
                "upperConfidence": "UCI",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticksSmallScreen": "abreviate",
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#1a9e1c", "#00703c", "#eb652e", "#0096ff", "#0f265c", "#808080"],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 40,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By socio-economic background" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of 18 to 20 year olds enrolled in higher education, by socio-economic background (UK, 2021)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/IN22-entry-to-higher-education--by-SEB--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By socio-economic background" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Office for National Statistics, Labour Force Survey (LFS), 2021

### Time period
2021

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the percentage of 18 to 20 year olds in the UK who began studying a higher education course in 2021.

### Things you need to know
Data used is weighted using LFS probability weights.

The error bars show 95% confidence intervals. These intervals show where we expect the true value from a population to
be 95% of the time. For example, a confidence interval with the range of values from 5 to 10 implies that there is a
95% chance that the true population value is between 5 and 10, and a 5% chance that it is outside of this range.
The narrower the confidence interval or range, the more precise the estimate. Read more about
[confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals)

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2023 on GOV.UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2023-people-and-places).

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="1.0/IN22-entry-to-higher-education--full-dataset.csv" :::

Commit message:

Updated content in Entry to higher education 2.0.md

son/content/intermediate_outcomes/routes_into_work_(16_to_29_years)/entry_to_higher_education/2.0.md, after:

---
title: Entry to higher education
date: yyyy-mm-dd
change_history: First published
---

Data on the percentage of 18 to 20 year olds studying for a full-time first degree, by year and socio-economic background.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

In 2022, 32% of 18 to 20 year olds were studying in higher education (HE), up from 27% in 2014. 

47% of 18 to 20 year olds from higher professional backgrounds were studying in HE. This was higher than those from lower professional (37%), higher working (34%), intermediate (29%) and lower working (21%) backgrounds.

The HE entry rate for 18 to 20 year olds from higher professional backgrounds was 2.2 times higher than those from lower working class backgrounds. In 2014, it was 3.9 times higher.

---

## By socio-economic background

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By socio-economic background" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of 18 to 20 year olds enrolled in higher education, by socio-economic background (UK, 2021)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By socio-economic background"
            {
                "code": "IN22",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "1.0/IN22_overview-20230327.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "SEB",
                "ykey": "Value",
                "zkey": "SEB",
                "scale": "%",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "lowerConfidence": "LCI",
                "upperConfidence": "UCI",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticksSmallScreen": "abreviate",
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#1a9e1c", "#00703c", "#eb652e", "#0096ff", "#0f265c", "#808080"],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 40,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By socio-economic background" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of 18 to 20 year olds enrolled in higher education, by socio-economic background (UK, 2021)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/IN22-entry-to-higher-education--by-SEB--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By socio-economic background" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Office for National Statistics, Labour Force Survey (LFS) 2022

### Time period
2022

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the percentage of 18 to 20 year olds in the UK who began studying in higher education (HE) from 2014 to 2022. HE includes degree level qualifications and foundation degrees. 

### Things you need to know
The data is weighted using the LFS person weights. The error bars show 95% [confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals).

The ratios are the percentage of 18 to 20 year olds from higher professional backgrounds in HE, divided by the percentage from lower working backgrounds.

A logistic regression model was used to test differences in the likelihood of being in HE by socio-economic background. The difference in entry rates between people from lower professional and higher professional backgrounds was only significant at the 10% level.

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2024 on GOV.UK].

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="1.0/IN22-entry-to-higher-education--full-dataset.csv" :::
