---
title: Promising prospects
date: 2024-09-11
change_history: First published
---

Data on the UK local authorities with the most 'promising prospects' for 25 to 29 year olds – measured by levels of education, professional work, and earnings.

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Index of 'promising prospects', by local authority (UK)

        ::: inset_text classes="govuk-!-margin-top-3"
            [203 local authority areas in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area/latest#list-of-uk-regions)
            are put into 5 categories based on their ‘index of promising prospects’ composite scores.
            The categories are not equally sized – the middle category is larger because most local authorities are very near the average.
            Areas with the highest scores have the most favourable prospects for young people.
        :::

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "CI",
                "title": "Index of 'promising prospects', by local authority (UK)",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/UK203regions-simplify2percent.topojson",
                "data": "2.0/CI1-2.0-promising-prospects--by-region--chart-format.csv",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "category2",
                "areaField": "Newname",
                "quantile": "group",
                "groupLabels": ["Least Favourable","Unfavourable","Middle Group","Favourable","Most Favourable"],
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "zero": false,
                "background": false,
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "hideCaterpillar": true,
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Index of 'promising prospects', by local authority (UK)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/CI1-2.0-promising-prospects--by-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "left"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2, null]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## Summary main findings
Most local authorities have scores near to the average on the index of promising prospects – this means there is little difference between them.

Young people brought up in some London boroughs – as well as the Surrey county council, Hertfordshire county council and Buckinghamshire county council areas – have the most ‘promising prospects’. This means they tend to have higher qualifications, earn more, and be in higher occupation levels by 25 to 29 years old.

Outside London and the home counties, Cheshire East and Warwickshire county council area also have promising prospects for young people.

There are less favourable prospects for young people who grew up in some parts of the North East, including:

* Newcastle upon Tyne
* Sunderland
* Gateshead
* Hartlepool
* South Tyneside
* Northumberland county council
* Durham county council

## About the data

### Data source(s)

Labour Force Survey (LFS), Office for National Statistics

### Time period

2018 to 2022 combined

### Geographic area

UK

### What the data measures
This page combines data from the following 3 indicators into a single 'composite' score:

* [Highest qualification](/intermediate_outcomes/routes_into_work_(16_to_29_years)/highest_qualification) – data on young people’s level of education
* [Occupational level of young people aged 25 to 29 years](/intermediate_outcomes/work_in_early_adulthood_(25_to_29_years)/occupational_level_of_young_people_aged_25_to_29_years) – data on young people in professional occupations
* [Earnings of young people aged 25 to 29 years](/intermediate_outcomes/work_in_early_adulthood_(25_to_29_years)/earnings_of_young_people_aged_25_to_29_years) – data on young people's earnings at work

The index of promising prospects adjusts for socio-economic background, and measures how well young people from similar backgrounds do in education and employment.

### Things you need to know
The areas shown are where respondents lived when they were aged 14 years.

To increase the number of survey respondents, we have combined the ‘higher’ and ‘lower’ professional classes into a single category. We have done the same with the ‘higher’ and ‘lower’ working classes.

Data constraints mean that Northern Ireland has to be treated as a single unit. Local authorities have had to be combined in a few other cases.

Read the [technical annex] for more information on how each area was scored.

### Type of data
Survey data

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/CI1-2.0-promising-prospects--full-dataset.csv" :::
