---
title: Promising prospects
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: 2025 updates
---

Data on the UK local authorities with the most 'promising prospects' for 25 to 44 year olds over time – measured by levels of education, professional work, and earnings. The index measures how well young people from similar socio-economic backgrounds do in education and the labour market.

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Index of 'promising prospects', by local authority (UK)

        ::: inset_text classes="govuk-!-margin-top-3"
            [205 local authority areas in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area/latest#list-of-uk-regions)
            are put into 7 categories based on their ‘index of promising prospects’ composite scores. The categories are not equally sized – the middle category is larger because most local authorities are very near the average. Areas with the highest scores have the most favourable prospects for young people.
        :::

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "CI",
                "title": "Index of 'promising prospects', by local authority (UK)",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/2025-UK205regions.json",
                "data": [{
                    "label": "2018 to 2020",
                    "data": "3.0/CI4-3.0-promising-prospects--by-UK205regions--2018-to-2020--chart-format.csv"
                },
                {
                    "label": "2021 to 2024",
                    "data": "3.0/CI4-3.0-promising-prospects--by-UK205regions--2021-to-2024--chart-format.csv"
                }
                ],
                "toggle": "radio",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "Newname",
                "quantile": "group_number",
                "groupLabels": [
                    "Least Favourable","Unfavourable", "Lower Middling",
                    "Middling", "Upper Middling","Favourable","Most Favourable"
                    ],
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "sevenCategories",
                "zero": false,
                "background": false,
                "colourScheme": [
                    "#ca0020", "#f3a582", "#FFEBCC", "#ffffbf", "#C9E2F2", "#92c5de", "#0671b0"
                    ],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "hideCaterpillar": true,
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Index of 'promising prospects', by local authority (UK)",
                "dataTable": "3.0/CI4-3.0-promising-prospects--by-UK205regions--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2, null, 2, null],
                "dataTableNumberOfHeadingRows": 2
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## Summary main findings
Across the 2 time periods covered by the data – 3 years to 2020, and 4 years to 2024 – most local authorities had scores close to the average on the index of promising prospects – this means there was little difference between them.

In the 4 years to 2024, young people brought up in some London boroughs – as well as the Surrey and Hertfordshire county council areas – had the most ‘promising prospects’. This means they tended to have higher qualifications, earned more, and were in higher occupation levels by 25 to 44 years old compared with young people in other regions from similar socio-economic backgrounds.

Outside London and the home counties, Warwickshire county council and the City of Edinburgh areas also had favourable promising prospects conditions for young people.

There were less favourable prospects for young people who grew up in Northern Ireland, some parts of Scotland, Rhondda Cynon Taf in Wales, and some parts of the North East and Yorkshire and the Humber, including:

* Hull
* Sunderland
* Gateshead
* Barnsley
* Durham

Between the 2 time periods, the scores of the index of promising prospects remained stable. London boroughs continued to have the most favourable conditions, while there was slightly more change among the areas with the lowest scores.

## About the data

### Data source(s)
Labour Force Survey (LFS), Office for National Statistics

### Time period
* 2018 to 2020 combined
* 2021 to 2024 combined

### Geographic area

UK

### What the data measures
This index brings together 4 measures of promising prospects for young people, as measured by their levels of education, occupational levels, and earnings.

This page combines data from the following 4 measures into a single 'composite' score:

* [Highest qualification](/intermediate_outcomes/routes_into_work_(16_to_29_years)/highest_qualification/latest) – net levels of a university degree among young people in each area after controlling for socio-economic background (SEB)
* [Occupational level of 25 to 44 year olds](/intermediate_outcomes/work_in_early_adulthood_(25_to_29_years)/occupational_level_of_young_people_aged_25_to_29_years/latest) (professional class occupation) – net percentages of people in professional class jobs in each area after controlling for SEB
* [Occupational level of 25 to 44 year olds](/intermediate_outcomes/work_in_early_adulthood_(25_to_29_years)/occupational_level_of_young_people_aged_25_to_29_years/latest) (working class occupation) – net percentages of people in working class jobs in each area after controlling for SEB
* [Earnings of 25 to 44 year olds](/intermediate_outcomes/work_in_early_adulthood_(25_to_29_years)/earnings_of_young_people_aged_25_to_29_years/latest) – mean hourly earnings among people in each area after controlling for SEB

The index of promising prospects adjusts for socio-economic background. It measures how well young people from similar backgrounds do in education and employment.

### Things you need to know
The areas shown are where respondents lived when they were aged 14 years.

To increase the number of survey respondents, we have combined:

* the ‘higher’ and ‘lower’ professional classes into a single ‘professional’ category
* the ‘higher’ and ‘lower’ working classes into a single ‘working class’ category

Data constraints mean that Northern Ireland has to be treated as a single unit. Local authorities have had to be combined in a few other cases.

The unit used for this index is the 'Z-score'. This is a type of statistical measurement which can be used to tell us how likely it is that a region is different to the UK average. 

The values shown are not percentages, and the difference between regions cannot be compared in percentage terms. 

The Z-scores are used to put regions into one of 7 groups, according to a set of thresholds for each group. See our [technical annex](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2024-local-to-national-mapping-opportunities-for-all/technical-annex) for more information on how each area was scored.

### Type of data
Survey data

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="3.0/CI4-3.0-promising-prospects--full-dataset.csv" :::
