---
title: Precarious situations
date: 2023-09-12
change_history: First published
---

Data on the UK regions with the most difficult economic circumstances for 25 to 29 year olds – measured by levels
of unemployment, economic inactivity and lower working-class employment.

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Index of ‘precarious situations’, by region (UK, 2018 to 2021 combined)

        [41 regions in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area#the-41-regions) are ranked from the lowest to highest composite scores.
        They are then divided into 5 equally-sized groups (‘quintiles’), from 1 (lowest) to 5 (highest).
        Areas with the highest scores have the most precarious situations for young people.

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "CI2",
                "title": "Index of ‘precarious situations’, by region (UK, 2018 to 2021 combined)",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/International_Territorial_Level_2_(January_2021)_UK_BUC.json",
                "data": "1.0/CI2_20230817.csv",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "Area_name",
                "valueField": "Value",
                "areaField": "ITL221NM",
                "quantile": "Quintile",
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "zero": false,
                "reversePolarity": true,
                "background": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "Value",
                "ykey": "Area_name",
                "sort": "-Value",
                "xgrid": true,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xtitle": "",
                "legend": false,
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Index of ‘precarious situations’, by region (UK, 2018 to 2021 combined)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/CI2-precarious-situations--by-ITL2-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2, 0]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## Summary main findings
Young people brought up in densely-populated urban areas – including London – tend to have more difficult economic
circumstances than young people in rural areas. This contrast shows the importance of looking within areas, as well as between areas.

London also has a high percentage of young people with
[promising prospects](/intermediate_outcomes/composite_indices/promising_prospects).
This contrast shows the importance of looking within areas, as well as between areas.

Some areas – for example, Eastern Scotland – do worse for young people's prospects in obtaining higher qualifications,
higher earnings and a professional job and for difficult economic circumstances.

## About the data
This page combines data from the following 3 indicators into a single ‘composite’ score to give a more reliable
picture of geographical mobility patterns:

* [Economic inactivity](/intermediate_outcomes/work_in_early_adulthood_(25_to_29_years)/economic_activity)
  – data on young people not in education or in employment
* [Unemployment](/intermediate_outcomes/work_in_early_adulthood_(25_to_29_years)/unemployment)
  – data on young people not in employment
* [Occupational level](/intermediate_outcomes/work_in_early_adulthood_(25_to_29_years)/occupational_level_of_young_people_aged_25_to_29_years)
  – data on young people in lower working class occupations

The data is adjusted for socio-economic background, so it measures how precarious the situations are of young people
from similar social backgrounds.

Indicators are rescaled to make sure they use a common metric.
The best-performing area’s score is set to 0, and the least well-performing area’s score is set to 1.

See the [technical annex (opens in a new tab)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2023-people-and-places/technical-annex#composite-indices-methodology){: target="_blank" }
for more information on how each area was scored.

## Data source
Labour Force Survey pooled, from 2018 to 2021.

Areas are those where respondents lived when they were aged 14 years.

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="1.0/CI2-precarious-situations--full-dataset.csv" :::
