---
title: Distribution of earnings
date: 2024-09-11
change_history: First published
---

Data on inequality in hourly pay between high earners and low earners.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

The gap in hourly pay between ‘high earners’ (people in the 90th percentile for hourly pay) and ‘low earners’ (people in the 10th percentile) narrowed between 2010 and 2023.

Between 1997 and 2011, high earners earned around 4 times as much as low earners.

In 2023, high earners earned 3 times as much as low earners.

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Hourly earnings ratio of people in the 90th and 10th percentiles, over time (UK, 1997 to 2023)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR11",
                "title": "Hourly earnings ratio of people in the 90th and 10th percentiles, over time (UK, 1997 to 2023)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "2.0/DR11-2.0-distribution-of-earnings--by-year--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "time_period",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "area_name",
                "yrule": [1],
                "sort": "Time_period",
                "scale": "Ratio",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticks": 7,
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca"],
                "range": [0, 5],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 25
            }
                
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Hourly earnings ratio of people in the 90th and 10th percentiles, over time (UK, 1997 to 2023)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR11-2.0-distribution-of-earnings--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Office for National Statistics, Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings (ASHE)

### Time period
1997 to 2023

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data measures the gap in hourly earnings between people at the:

* 90th percentile (‘high earners’) – they earn more than 90% of people
* 10th percentile (‘low earners’) – they earn less than 90% of people

The ‘90:10 ratio’ is calculated as income at the 90th percentile divided by income at the 10th percentile. For example, a ratio of 2 means that people at the 90th percentile earn twice as much as people at the 10th percentile.

### Things you need to know
This data uses the ‘90:10 ratio’ rather than the Gini coefficient (a commonly-used measure of income inequality). This is for ease of understanding. 

Data for 2023 is provisional and may be revised in the future.

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2024 on GOV.UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2024-local-to-national-mapping-opportunities-for-all).

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/DR11-2.0-distribution-of-earnings--full-dataset.csv" :::
