son/content/drivers_of_social_mobility/social_capital_and_connections/level_of_trust,_fairness_and_helpfulness/1.0.md, before:

# Level of trust, fairness and helpfulness

Data on how trustworthy, fair and helpful people in the UK think other people are.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

Between 2002 and 2018:

* on a scale of 0 to 10, people’s average levels of trust in other people went up from 5.1 to 5.2
(with a score of 10 meaning “most people can be trusted”)
* people’s average perception of fairness went up from 5.5 to 5.7 (with 10 meaning “most people try to be fair”)
* people’s average perception of helpfulness went up from 5.4 to 5.8 (with 10 meaning “people mostly try to be helpful”)

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### People’s average levels of trust, perceived fairness and helpfulness (UK, 2002 to 2018)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR42",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "/static/data/indicators/DR42_overview-20230417.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "Time_period",
                "ykey": "Value",
                "zkey": "Category",
                "sort": "Time_period",
                "scale": "Mean",
                "lowerConfidence": "LCI",
                "upperConfidence": "UCI",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticks": 7,
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c", "#4c2c92"],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 20,
                "rolloverBehaviour": "fade",
                "clickBehaviour": "isolate"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "People’s average levels of trust, perceived fairness and helpfulness (UK, 2002 to 2018)",
                "dataTable": "/static/data/pre-processed-csvs/DR42-level-of-trust-fairness-and-helpfulness--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
European Social Survey, data for the UK

### Time period
2002 to 2018

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows people’s median (average) levels of trust and perceptions of fairness and helpfulness in the UK between 2002 and 2018.

Trust was measured on a scale of 0 (meaning "you can't be too careful") to 10 (meaning "most people can be trusted").

Fairness was measured on a scale of 0 ("most people try to take advantage of me") to 10 ("most people try to be fair").

Helpfulness was measured on a scale of 0 ("people mostly look out for themselves") to 10 ("people mostly try to be helpful").

Figures are rounded to 1 decimal place.

### Things you need to know
Confidence intervals are used for each year covered by the data.

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2023 on GOV.UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2023-people-and-places).

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="/static/data/full-datasets/DR42-level-of-trust-fairness-and-helpfulness--full-dataset.csv" :::

Commit message:

EHD-1077: Versioning: Indicators: Add page history: Update MD files to add YAML header

son/content/drivers_of_social_mobility/social_capital_and_connections/level_of_trust,_fairness_and_helpfulness/1.0.md, after:

---
title: Level of trust, fairness and helpfulness
date: 2023-09-12
change_history: First published
---

Data on how trustworthy, fair and helpful people in the UK think other people are.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

Between 2002 and 2018:

* on a scale of 0 to 10, people’s average levels of trust in other people went up from 5.1 to 5.2
(with a score of 10 meaning “most people can be trusted”)
* people’s average perception of fairness went up from 5.5 to 5.7 (with 10 meaning “most people try to be fair”)
* people’s average perception of helpfulness went up from 5.4 to 5.8 (with 10 meaning “people mostly try to be helpful”)

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### People’s average levels of trust, perceived fairness and helpfulness (UK, 2002 to 2018)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR42",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "/static/data/indicators/DR42_overview-20230417.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "Time_period",
                "ykey": "Value",
                "zkey": "Category",
                "sort": "Time_period",
                "scale": "Mean",
                "lowerConfidence": "LCI",
                "upperConfidence": "UCI",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticks": 7,
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c", "#4c2c92"],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 20,
                "rolloverBehaviour": "fade",
                "clickBehaviour": "isolate"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "People’s average levels of trust, perceived fairness and helpfulness (UK, 2002 to 2018)",
                "dataTable": "/static/data/pre-processed-csvs/DR42-level-of-trust-fairness-and-helpfulness--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
European Social Survey, data for the UK

### Time period
2002 to 2018

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows people’s median (average) levels of trust and perceptions of fairness and helpfulness in the UK between 2002 and 2018.

Trust was measured on a scale of 0 (meaning "you can't be too careful") to 10 (meaning "most people can be trusted").

Fairness was measured on a scale of 0 ("most people try to take advantage of me") to 10 ("most people try to be fair").

Helpfulness was measured on a scale of 0 ("people mostly look out for themselves") to 10 ("people mostly try to be helpful").

Figures are rounded to 1 decimal place.

### Things you need to know
Confidence intervals are used for each year covered by the data.

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2023 on GOV.UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2023-people-and-places).

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="/static/data/full-datasets/DR42-level-of-trust-fairness-and-helpfulness--full-dataset.csv" :::
