---
title: Level of trust, fairness and helpfulness
date: 2024-09-11
change_history: First published
---

Data on how trustworthy, fair and helpful people in the UK think other people are.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

People’s trust in other people was relatively low between 2002 and 2020, compared with how fair and helpful they thought other people were. There was a small increase in levels of trust between 2018 and 2020.

Between 2002 and 2020, on a scale of 0 to 10:

* people’s average levels of trust in other people went up from 5.0 to 5.4 – 10 means ‘most people can be trusted’
* people’s average perception of fairness went up from 5.5 to 5.9 – 10 means ‘most people try to be fair’
* people’s average perception of helpfulness went up from 5.4 to 5.9 – 10 means ‘people mostly try to be helpful’

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### People’s average levels of trust, perceived fairness and helpfulness (UK, 2002 to 2020)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR42",
                "title": "People’s average levels of trust, perceived fairness and helpfulness (UK, 2002 to 2020)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "2.0/DR42-2.0-level-of-trust-fairness-and-helpfulness--by-year--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "time_period",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "category",
                "sort": "time_period",
                "scale": "Mean",
                "lowerConfidence": "lci",
                "upperConfidence": "uci",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticks": 7,
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c", "#4c2c92"],
                "range": [0, 6.25],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 20,
                "rolloverBehaviour": "fade",
                "clickBehaviour": "isolate"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "People’s average levels of trust, perceived fairness and helpfulness (UK, 2002 to 2020)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR42-2.0-level-of-trust-fairness-and-helpfulness--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
European Social Survey (data for the UK)

### Time period
2002 to 2020

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows people’s mean (average) levels of trust and perceptions of fairness and helpfulness in the UK between 2002 and 2020.

Trust was measured on a scale of 0 (meaning ‘you can't be too careful’) to 10 (‘most people can be trusted’).

Fairness was measured on a scale of 0 (‘most people try to take advantage of me’) to 10 (‘most people try to be fair’).

Helpfulness was measured on a scale of 0 (‘people mostly look out for themselves’) to 10 (‘people mostly try to be helpful’).

Figures are rounded to 1 decimal place.

### Things you need to know
Confidence intervals are used for each year covered by the data.

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2024 on GOV.UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2024-local-to-national-mapping-opportunities-for-all).

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/DR42-2.0-level-of-trust-fairness-and-helpfulness--full-dataset.csv" :::
