---
title: Level of trust, fairness and helpfulness
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: 2025 changes
---

Data on how trustworthy, fair and helpful people in the UK think other people are.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

Levels of trust, and perceptions of fairness and helpfulness went up slightly from 2002 to 2023. 

Levels of trust were generally lower than perceptions of fairness and helpfulness. 

Between 2002 and 2023, on a scale of 0 to 10:

* people’s average level of trust in others went up from 5.1 to 5.4 – 10 means ‘most people can be trusted’
* people’s average perception of fairness went up from 5.6 to 5.9 – 10 means ‘most people try to be fair’
* people’s average perception of helpfulness went up from 5.4 to 6 – 10 means ‘most people try to be helpful’

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### People’s average levels of trust, perceived fairness and helpfulness (UK, 2002 to 2023)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR42",
                "title": "People’s average levels of trust, perceived fairness and helpfulness (UK, 2002 to 2023)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "3.0/DR42-3.0-level-of-trust-fairness-and-helpfulness--by-year--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "secondary_split_value",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "primary_split_value",
                "sort": "secondary_split_value",
                "scale": "Mean",
                "lowerConfidence": "lci",
                "upperConfidence": "uci",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticks": 7,
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c", "#4c2c92"],
                "range": [0, 7],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 20,
                "rolloverBehaviour": "fade",
                "clickBehaviour": "isolate"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "People’s average levels of trust, perceived fairness and helpfulness (UK, 2002 to 2023)",
                "dataTable": "3.0/DR42-3.0-level-of-trust-fairness-and-helpfulness--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
European Social Survey (ESS) – data for the UK

### Time period
2002 to 2023

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows people’s mean (average) levels of trust and perceptions of fairness and helpfulness in the UK between 2002 and 2023.

Trust was measured on a scale of 0 (meaning ‘you can't be too careful’) to 10 (‘most people can be trusted’).

Fairness was measured on a scale of 0 (‘most people try to take advantage of me’) to 10 (‘most people try to be fair’).

Helpfulness was measured on a scale of 0 (‘people mostly look out for themselves’) to 10 (‘people mostly try to be helpful’).

Figures are rounded to 1 decimal place.

### Things you need to know
ESS Survey rounds 1 to 10 were published every 2 years, from 2002 to 2010. Survey round 11 was published after 3 years, in 2023.

Confidence intervals are used for each year covered by the data.

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2025 on GOV.UK]().

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="3.0/DR42-3.0-level-of-trust-fairness-and-helpfulness--full-dataset.csv" :::
