# Distribution of parental occupation

Data on the occupation level of adults in families with dependent children.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

20% of adults in families with dependent children were in ‘higher professional’ occupations in 2021, up from 14% in 2014.

46% were in professional occupations (higher or lower) in 2021, up from 39% in 2014.

13% were in higher working class occupations in 2021, down from 19% in 2014.

32% were in working class occupations (higher or lower) in 2021, down from 40% in 2014.

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of adults in families with dependent children in different occupation levels, over time (UK, 2014 to 2021)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR14",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "/static/data/indicators/DR14_overview-20230417.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "Time_period",
                "ykey": "Value",
                "zkey": "Category",
                "sort": "Time_period",
                "scale": "%",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticksSmallScreen": "abreviate",
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "reverseLegend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#1a9e1c", "#00703c", "#eb652e", "#0096ff", "#0f265c"],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 45,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff",
                "clickBehaviour": "filter"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of adults in families with dependent children in different occupation levels, over time (UK, 2014 to 2021)",
                "dataTable": "/static/data/pre-processed-csvs/DR14-distribution-of-parental-occupation--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## By area

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of adults in families with dependent children in a higher professional or lower working class occupation, by region (UK, 2014 to 2021 combined) {: class="govuk-!-margin-bottom-4"}

        [41 regions in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area#the-41-regions) are ranked from the lowest to highest percentages.
        They are then divided into 5 equally-sized groups (‘quintiles’), from 1 (lowest) to 5 (highest).
        
        The regional estimates have a large margin of error – do not rank or compare specific regions.
        
        The lines either side of the dots represent [confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals)
        – the range of values that the 'true' value for each region is highly likely to be within.
        In many cases the confidence intervals overlap.
        This suggests differences between specific regions may not be statistically significant.
        
        See the [composite indices](/social_mobility_by_area#composite-measures-by-region) for more precise estimates and to
        understand overall regional patterns.

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "DR14",
                "tooltipTitle": "Percentage of adults in a higher professional or lower working class occupation",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/International_Territorial_Level_2_(January_2021)_UK_BUC.json",
                "data": [{
                "label": "Higher professional",
                "data": "/static/data/indicators/DR14_area_higher_professional-20230419.csv"
            }, {
                "label": "Lower working",
                "data": "/static/data/indicators/DR14_area_lower_working-20230419.csv",
                "reversePolarity": true
            }],
                "toggle": "radio",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "Area_name",
                "valueField": "Value",
                "areaField": "ITL221NM",
                "scale": "%",
                "lowerConfidence": "LCI",
                "upperConfidence": "UCI",
                "confidenceIntervals": "visible",
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "zero": false,
                "background": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "Value",
                "ykey": "Area_name",
                "sort": "-Value",
                "xgrid": true,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xtitle": "Distribution of parental education (%)",
                "legend": false,
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
                
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of adults in families with dependent children in a higher professional or lower working class occupation, by region (UK, 2014 to 2021 combined)",
                "dataTable": "/static/data/pre-processed-csvs/DR14-distribution-of-parental-occupation--by-ITL2-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Labour Force Survey (LFS), Office for National Statistics

### Time period
2014 to 2021

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the occupation levels of adults in families with dependent children.
Dependent children are classed as all 0 to 15 year olds, and 16 to 18 year olds who are in full-time education.

The occupation levels are:

* higher professional
* lower professional
* intermediate
* higher working
* lower working

### Things you need to know
The average age of survey respondents was 40 years old. The majority of respondents are likely to be the parents or
carers of dependent children, but some could be adults living in homes with parents who have dependent children.

Respondents aged less than 21 years old were not included.

Data is weighted using LFS probability weights.

The error bars show 95% confidence intervals. These intervals show where we expect the true value from a population to
be 95% of the time. For example, a confidence interval with the range of values from 5 to 10 implies that there is a
95% chance that the true population value is between 5 and 10, and a 5% chance that it is outside of this range.
The narrower the confidence interval or range, the more precise the estimate. Read more about
[confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals)

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2023 on GOV.UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2023-people-and-places).

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="/static/data/full-datasets/DR14-distribution-of-parental-occupation--full-dataset.csv" :::
