---
title: Postgraduate education
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on the percentage of 25 to 64 year olds in the UK who had a postgraduate degree from 2014 to 2024.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

From 2014 to 2024, the percentage of 25 to 64 year olds in the UK who had a postgraduate degree went up from 9% to 16%. 

In the period from 2014 to 2024 combined, Inner and Outer London had the highest percentage of 25 to 64 year olds with postgraduate degrees. Southern Scotland and Lincolnshire had the lowest percentages. 

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of 25 to 64 year olds who had a qualification above degree level (UK, 2014 to 2024)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR53",
                "title": "Percentage of 25 to 64 year olds who had a qualification above degree level (UK, 2014 to 2024)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "3.0/DR53-3.0-postgraduate-education--by-year--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "secondary_split_value",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "area_name",
                "sort": "secondary_split_value",
                "scale": "%",
                "lowerConfidence": "lci",
                "upperConfidence": "uci",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticks": 2,
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca"],
                "range": [0, 20],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 40,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff",
                "maxLabelLength": 30
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of 25 to 64 year olds who had a qualification above degree level (UK, 2014 to 2024)",
                "dataTable": "3.0/DR53-3.0-postgraduate-education--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## By area

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of 25 to 64 year olds who had a qualification above degree level, by region (UK, 2014 to 2024 combined)

        ::: inset_text classes="govuk-!-margin-top-3"
            41 regions in the UK are ranked from the lowest to highest values. They are then divided into 5 equally-sized groups (‘quintiles’), from 1 (lowest) to 5 (highest).
            
            The lines either side of the dots represent [confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals) – the range of values that the 'true' value for each region is highly likely to be within. In many cases the confidence intervals overlap. This suggests differences between specific regions may not be statistically significant.
            
            The regional estimates have a large margin of error – do not rank or compare specific regions. See the [composite indices](/social_mobility_by_area#composite-measures-by-region) for more precise estimates and to understand overall regional patterns.
        :::

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "DR53",
                "title": "Percentage of 25 to 64 year olds who had a qualification above degree level, by region (UK, 2014 to 2024 combined)",
                "tooltipTitle": "Percentage of 25 to 64 year olds with a postgraduate degree",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/International_Territorial_Level_2_(January_2021)_UK_BUC.json",
                "data": "3.0/DR53-3.0-postgraduate-education--by-ITL2-region--chart-format.csv",
                "toggle": "radio",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "ITL221NM",
                "scale": "%",
                "lowerConfidence": "lci",
                "upperConfidence": "uci",
                "confidenceIntervals": "visible",
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "quantile": "category",
                "background": "full",
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "domain": [0, 35],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "value",
                "ykey": "area_name",
                "sort": "-value",
                "xgrid": true,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticks": 8,
                "xticksSmallScreen": 4,
                "xtitle": "Percent of people with a postgraduate qualification (%)",
                "legend": false,
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
                
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of 25 to 64 year olds who had a qualification above degree level, by region (UK, 2014 to 2024 combined)",
                "dataTable": "3.0/DR53-3.0-postgraduate-education--by-ITL2-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Office for National Statistics, Labour Force Survey (LFS) 

### Time period
* 2014 to 2024 (By year)
* 2014 to 2024 combined (By area)

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the percentage of 25 to 64 year olds in the UK with a postgraduate degree. A postgraduate degree is defined as any qualification above degree level. It is sometimes known as a ‘higher degree’.

### Things you need to know
Data is weighted using LFS person weights.

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2025 on GOV.UK]().

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="3.0/DR53-3.0-postgraduate-education--full-dataset.csv" :::
