---
title: Access to higher education
date: 2024-09-11
change_history: First published
---

Data on the percentage of 19 year olds enrolled in education in the UK and internationally, over time.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

62% of 19 year olds in the UK enrolled in secondary or post-secondary education (including university and college courses) in 2021, compared with 48% in 2010. 

Between 2016 and 2021, enrolment rates in the UK were similar to the OECD average. Before then, enrolment rates in OECD countries were consistently higher.

Enrolment rates in the UK have increased since 2010, and reached their peak in 2020 (63%). 

The enrolment rate in OECD countries stayed roughly the same between 2010 and 2021, at 61% or 62%.

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of 19 year olds enrolled in secondary or post-secondary education, over time (UK and international averages, 2010 to 2021)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR23",
                "title": "Percentage of 19 year olds enrolled in secondary or post-secondary education, over time (UK and international averages, 2010 to 2021)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "2.0/DR23-2.0-access-to-higher-education--by-year--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "area_name",
                "ykey": "value",
                "group": "time_period",
                "sort": "time_period",
                "scale": "%",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticksSmallScreen": "abreviate",
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c"],
                "range": [0, 80],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 40,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff",
                "clickBehaviour": "fade"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of 19 year olds enrolled in secondary or post-secondary education, over time (UK and international averages, 2010 to 2021)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR23-2.0-access-to-higher-education--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), Online Education Database: enrolment by age

### Time period
2010 to 2021

### Geographic area
UK and OECD countries

### What the data measures
The data shows the percentage of 19 year olds entered in education in the UK, over time. It also shows the international average, measured in [OECD countries](https://www.oecd.org/about/document/ratification-oecd-convention.htm).

Secondary and post-secondary education includes college, university, and vocational courses.

The data includes full-time and part-time students. In some OECD countries, part-time education is only partially covered in the data.

### Things you need to know
Entry rates are calculated by dividing the number of 19 year old students by the total number of 19 year olds in the population.

### Type of data
Administrative data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2024 on GOV.UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2024-local-to-national-mapping-opportunities-for-all).

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/DR23-2.0-access-to-higher-education--full-dataset.csv" :::
