---
title: Further training and qualifications
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on the percentage of people aged 25 and 32 years with a university degree, by socio-economic background.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

The percentage of young people who got university degrees went up between the ages of 25 and 32 years. This was the case for young people from all socio-economic backgrounds.

25% of people from working class backgrounds had a degree by 25 years old. This went up to 39% by age 32 years.

38% of people from intermediate backgrounds had a degree by 25 years old. This went up to 52% by age 32 years.

55% of people from professional backgrounds had a degree by 25 years old. This went up to 74% by age 32 years.

---

## By socio-economic background

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By socio-economic background" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of people born in 1990 who had got a degree by 25 and 32 years old, by socio-economic background (UK, 2015 and 2022)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By socio-economic background"
            {
                "code": "IN41",
                "title": "Percentage of people born in 1990 who had got a degree by 25 and 32 years old, by socio-economic background (UK, 2015 and 2022)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "2.0/IN41-2.0-further-training-and-qualifications--by-age-and-SEB--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "age_with_text",
                "ykey": "value",
                "group": "seb",
                "sort": "age_with_text",
                "scale": "%",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "lowerConfidence": "lci",
                "upperConfidence": "uci",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c"],
                "range": [0, 80],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 40,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff",
                "clickBehaviour": "fade"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By socio-economic background" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of people born in 1990 who had got a degree by 25 and 32 years old, by socio-economic background (UK, 2015 and 2022)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/IN41-2.0-further-training-and-qualifications--by-age-and-SEB--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By socio-economic background" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Office for National Statistics, Labour Force Survey (LFS)

### Time period
2015 and 2022

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the percentage of people born in 1990 who had a university degree by the ages of 25 and 32 years old, by socio-economic background.

Data is shown for the following socio-economic backgrounds:

* professional class (combining the higher and lower professional classes)
* intermediate class
* working class (combining the higher and lower working classes)

These are based on the National Statistics Socio-economic Classification (NS-SEC), set by the ONS.

### Things you need to know
Data is weighted using LFS person weights.

The data compares 2 separate samples from surveys in 2015 and 2022. It does not compare the same people at different time points.

The error bars show 95% confidence intervals. Read more about [confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals).

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2024 on GOV.UK].

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/IN41-2.0-further-training-and-qualifications--full-dataset.csv" :::
