son/content/intermediate_outcomes/career_progression_(35_to_44_years)/further_training_and_qualifications/2.0.md, before:

---
title: Further training and qualifications
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on the percentage of people aged 25 and 32 years with a university degree, by socio-economic background.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

Data from 2014 and 2021 shows that the percentage of young people with university degrees went up between the ages of 25 and 32 years.

20% of people from working class backgrounds had a degree by 25 years old, rising to 34% by 32 years old.

34% of people from intermediate backgrounds had a degree by 25 years old, rising to 55% by 32 years old.

57% of people from professional backgrounds had a degree by 25 years old, rising to 70% by 32 years old.

---

## By socio-economic background

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By socio-economic background" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of young people born in 1989 who had degrees by the ages of 25 and 32 years, by socio-economic background (UK, 2014 and 2021)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By socio-economic background"
            {
                "code": "IN41",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "2.0/IN41-2.0-further-training-and-qualifications--by-age-and-SEB--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "age_with_text",
                "ykey": "value",
                "group": "seb",
                "sort": "age_with_text",
                "scale": "%",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "lowerConfidence": "lci",
                "upperConfidence": "uci",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c"],
                "range": [0, 80],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 40,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff",
                "clickBehaviour": "fade"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By socio-economic background" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of young people born in 1989 who had degrees by the ages of 25 and 32 years, by socio-economic background (UK, 2014 and 2021)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/IN41-2.0-further-training-and-qualifications--by-age-and-SEB--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By socio-economic background" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Office for National Statistics (ONS), Labour Force Survey (LFS) from 2014 and 2021

### Time period
2014 and 2021

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the percentage of people born in 1989 who had a university degree by the ages of 25 and 32 years old,
by socio-economic background.

Data is shown for the following socio-economic backgrounds:

* professional class (combining the higher and lower professional classes)
* intermediate class
* working class (combining the higher and lower working classes)

These are based on the National Statistics Socio-economic Classification (NS-SEC), set by the ONS.

### Things you need to know
Data is weighted using LFS probability weights.

The data compares 2 separate samples from surveys carried out in 2014 and 2021. It does not compare the same
individuals at different time points.

The data includes people aged 25 years in the first group, as most young people have completed full-time education
and started work by that age.

The error bars show 95% confidence intervals. These intervals show where we expect the true value from a population to
be 95% of the time. For example, a confidence interval with the range of values from 5 to 10 implies that there is a
95% chance that the true population value is between 5 and 10, and a 5% chance that it is outside of this range.
The narrower the confidence interval or range, the more precise the estimate. Read more about
[confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals)

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2023 on GOV.UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2023-people-and-places).

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/IN41-2.0-further-training-and-qualifications--full-dataset.csv" :::

Commit message:

Updated content in Further education and qualifications 2.0.md

son/content/intermediate_outcomes/career_progression_(35_to_44_years)/further_training_and_qualifications/2.0.md, after:

---
title: Further training and qualifications
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on the percentage of people aged 25 and 32 years with a university degree, by socio-economic background.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

The percentage of young people who got university degrees went up between the ages of 25 and 32 years. This was the case for young people from all socio-economic backgrounds.

25% of people from working class backgrounds had a degree by 25 years old. This went up to 39% by the time they were 32 years old.

38% of people from intermediate backgrounds had a degree by 25 years old. This went up to 52% by 32 years old.

55% of people from professional backgrounds had a degree by 25 years old. This went up to 74% by 32 years old.

---

## By socio-economic background

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By socio-economic background" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of people born in 1990 who had got a degree by 25 and 32 years old, by socio-economic background (UK, 2015 and 2022)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By socio-economic background"
            {
                "code": "IN41",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "2.0/IN41-2.0-further-training-and-qualifications--by-age-and-SEB--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "age_with_text",
                "ykey": "value",
                "group": "seb",
                "sort": "age_with_text",
                "scale": "%",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "lowerConfidence": "lci",
                "upperConfidence": "uci",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c"],
                "range": [0, 80],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 40,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff",
                "clickBehaviour": "fade"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By socio-economic background" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of people born in 1990 who had got a degree by 25 and 32 years old, by socio-economic background (UK, 2015 and 2022)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/IN41-2.0-further-training-and-qualifications--by-age-and-SEB--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By socio-economic background" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Office for National Statistics, Labour Force Survey (LFS)

### Time period
2015 and 2022

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the percentage of people born in 1990 who had a university degree by the ages of 25 and 32 years old, by socio-economic background.

Data is shown for the following socio-economic backgrounds:

* professional class (combining the higher and lower professional classes)
* intermediate class
* working class (combining the higher and lower working classes)

These are based on the National Statistics Socio-economic Classification (NS-SEC), set by the ONS.

### Things you need to know
Data is weighted using LFS person weights.

The data compares 2 separate samples from surveys in 2015 and 2022. It does not compare the same people at different time points.

The error bars show 95% confidence intervals. Read more about [confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals).

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2024 on GOV.UK].

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/IN41-2.0-further-training-and-qualifications--full-dataset.csv" :::
