---
title: Childhood poverty
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on the percentage of children in the UK living in relative poverty after housing costs.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

In 2023, around 30% of children were living in households in relative poverty, after housing costs.

Between 2018 and 2023, the percentage of children living in relative poverty stayed at around 30%.

The percentage of children living in relative poverty has gone up since 2013, when it was 27.1%. It is still below the levels reached in the late 1990s, when it peaked at 33.4%.

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of children living in relative poverty after housing costs, by country over time (UK, 1997 to 2023)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR12",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "2.0/DR12-2.0-childhood-poverty--by-year-and-country--original.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "time_period",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "area_name",
                "sort": "time_period",
                "scale": "%",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticks": 7,
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c", "#4c2c92", "#d53880", "#28a197"],
                "range": [0, 40],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 40,
                "rolloverBehaviour": "fade",
                "clickBehaviour": "isolate"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of children living in relative poverty after housing costs, by country over time (UK, 1997 to 2023)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR12-2.0-childhood-poverty--by-year-and-country--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## By area

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of children living in relative poverty after housing costs, by region (UK, 2018 to 2019) {: class="govuk-!-margin-bottom-4"}

        [41 regions in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area#the-41-regions) are ranked from the lowest to highest percentages.
        They are then divided into 5 equally-sized groups (‘quintiles’), from 1 (lowest) to 5 (highest).
        
        The regional estimates have a large margin of error – do not rank or compare specific regions.
        
        The lines either side of the dots represent [confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals)
        – the range of values that the 'true' value for each region is highly likely to be within.
        In many cases the confidence intervals overlap.
        This suggests differences between specific regions may not be statistically significant.
        
        See the [composite indices](/social_mobility_by_area#composite-measures-by-region) for more precise estimates and to
        understand overall regional patterns.

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "DR12",
                "tooltipTitle": "Percentage of children in relative poverty",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/International_Territorial_Level_2_(January_2021)_UK_BUC.json",
                "data": "1.0/DR12_area-20230417.csv",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "Area_name",
                "valueField": "Value",
                "areaField": "ITL221NM",
                "scale": "%",
                "lowerConfidence": "LCI",
                "upperConfidence": "UCI",
                "confidenceIntervals": "visible",
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "zero": false,
                "reversePolarity": true,
                "background": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "Value",
                "ykey": "Area_name",
                "sort": "-Value",
                "xgrid": true,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xtitle": "Childhood poverty (%)",
                "legend": false,
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
                
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of children living in relative poverty after housing costs, by region (UK, 2018 to 2019)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/DR12-childhood-poverty--by-ILT2-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Department for Work and Pensions (DWP), Households Below Average Income statistics

### Time period
1994 to 2023

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the percentage of children living in households in relative poverty after housing costs in the UK.

A household is in relative poverty if their equivalised income is below 60% of the median income for all households in the UK. ‘Equivalised’ means adjusted for the number and ages of the people living in the household.

### Things you need to know
Data is calculated using 3-year averages. For example, the figure for 2022 represents the average of the financial years starting in 2020, 2021 and 2022.

The error bars show 95% confidence intervals. Read more about [confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals).

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2024 on GOV.UK].

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/DR12-2.0-childhood-poverty--full-dataset.csv" :::
