son/content/drivers_of_social_mobility/composite_indices/childhood_conditions/1.0.md, before:

---
title: Conditions of childhood
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on the UK regions with the most favourable conditions of childhood – measured by childhood poverty, and the earnings, qualifications and occupation levels of parents.

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Index of conditions of childhood, by region (UK)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "CI",
                "title": "Index of conditions of childhood, by region (UK)",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/International_Territorial_Level_2_(January_2021)_UK_BUC.json",
                "data": "1.0/CI-1.0-childhood-conditions--by-region--chart-format.csv",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "ITL221NM",
                "quantile": "group",
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "zero": false,
                "reversePolarity": true,
                "background": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "domain": [-3, 3],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "value",
                "ykey": "area_name",
                "sort": "-value",
                "xgrid": true,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xtitle": "",
                "legend": false,
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Index of conditions of childhood, by region (UK)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/CI-1.0-childhood-conditions--by-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2, 0]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## Summary main findings
Children brought up in Kingston upon Thames and Richmond upon Thames – as well as in Surrey, Windsor and Maidenhead – have the ‘most favourable’ conditions of childhood. This means their parents are more likely to have higher earnings, higher levels of education, and higher occupation levels.

Outside London and the home counties, Trafford and East Dunbartonshire also have more favourable conditions of childhood.

Less favourable conditions of childhood tend to be found in the North East of England, in coastal cities, industrial and former mining areas, such as Oldham and Stoke-on-Trent, as well as some inner-city areas in London.

Some regions contain both favourable and less favourable areas. Many favourable areas are in London and the South of England, while there are also areas of high deprivation in London. The same applies in Scotland and Wales. This means that the ‘north-south divide’ for conditions of childhood is less clear than it is for [labour market opportunities](/drivers_of_social_mobility/composite_indices/labour_market_opportunities/latest).

---

## About the data

### Data source(s)
* Households below average income (HBAI) statistics, Department for Work and Pensions
* Labour Force Survey (LFS), Office for National Statistics

### Time period
* 2014 to 2022 combined (LFS)
* 1995 to 2023 (HBAI)

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures

This page combines data from the following 4 indicators into a single 'composite' score:

* [Distribution of earnings]()

* [Childhood poverty]()

* [Distribution of parental education]()

* [Distribution of parental occupation]()

### Things you need to know
Areas are based on where respondents live now.

### Type of data
* Survey data (LFS)
* Official statistics (HBAI)

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="1.0/CI-1.0-childhood-conditions--full-dataset.csv" :::

Commit message:

Updated Childhood conditions composite index with map hint text

son/content/drivers_of_social_mobility/composite_indices/childhood_conditions/1.0.md, after:

---
title: Conditions of childhood
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on the UK regions with the most favourable conditions of childhood – measured by childhood poverty, and the earnings, qualifications and occupation levels of parents.

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Index of conditions of childhood, by region (UK)

        [203 local authority areas in the UK] are put into 5 groups – from ‘most favourable’ to ‘least favourable’ conditions – based on their ‘index of childhood conditions’ composite scores. The categories are not equally sized – the middle category is larger because most local authorities are very near the average. Areas with the highest scores have the most favourable childhood conditions.

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "CI",
                "title": "Index of conditions of childhood, by region (UK)",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/International_Territorial_Level_2_(January_2021)_UK_BUC.json",
                "data": "1.0/CI-1.0-childhood-conditions--by-region--chart-format.csv",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "ITL221NM",
                "quantile": "group",
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "zero": false,
                "reversePolarity": true,
                "background": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "domain": [-3, 3],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "value",
                "ykey": "area_name",
                "sort": "-value",
                "xgrid": true,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xtitle": "",
                "legend": false,
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Index of conditions of childhood, by region (UK)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/CI-1.0-childhood-conditions--by-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2, 0]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## Summary main findings
Children brought up in Kingston upon Thames and Richmond upon Thames – as well as in Surrey, Windsor and Maidenhead – have the ‘most favourable’ conditions of childhood. This means their parents are more likely to have higher earnings, higher levels of education, and higher occupation levels.

Outside London and the home counties, Trafford and East Dunbartonshire also have more favourable conditions of childhood.

Less favourable conditions of childhood tend to be found in the North East of England, in coastal cities, industrial and former mining areas, such as Oldham and Stoke-on-Trent, as well as some inner-city areas in London.

Some regions contain both favourable and less favourable areas. Many favourable areas are in London and the South of England, while there are also areas of high deprivation in London. The same applies in Scotland and Wales. This means that the ‘north-south divide’ for conditions of childhood is less clear than it is for [labour market opportunities](/drivers_of_social_mobility/composite_indices/labour_market_opportunities/latest).

---

## About the data

### Data source(s)
* Households below average income (HBAI) statistics, Department for Work and Pensions
* Labour Force Survey (LFS), Office for National Statistics

### Time period
* 2014 to 2022 combined (LFS)
* 1995 to 2023 (HBAI)

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures

This page combines data from the following 4 indicators into a single 'composite' score:

* [Distribution of earnings]()

* [Childhood poverty]()

* [Distribution of parental education]()

* [Distribution of parental occupation]()

### Things you need to know
Areas are based on where respondents live now.

### Type of data
* Survey data (LFS)
* Official statistics (HBAI)

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="1.0/CI-1.0-childhood-conditions--full-dataset.csv" :::
