---
title: Job vacancy rate
date: 2025-12-18
change_history: 2025 updates
---

Data on the number of vacancies for every unemployed person in the UK from 2001 to 2024.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

The estimated number of vacancies for every jobseeker went down from 0.7 in 2023 to 0.5 in 2024.

There were more vacancies for every jobseeker in 2021 than at any time in the previous 20 years, at around 0.9 vacancies for every unemployed person.

The job vacancy rate was at its lowest between 2009 and 2012, at around 0.2 vacancies for every unemployed person.

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Number of job vacancies for every unemployed 16 to 64 year old (UK, 2001 to 2024)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR31",
                "title": "Number of job vacancies for every unemployed 16 to 64 year old (UK, 2001 to 2024)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "3.0/DR31-3.0-job-vacancy-rate--by-year--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "primary_split_value",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "area_name",
                "sort": "primary_split_value",
                "scale": "Rate",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticks": 7,
                "xticksSmallScreen": "first-last",
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca"],
                "range": [0, 1],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 35
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Number of job vacancies for every unemployed 16 to 64 year old (UK, 2001 to 2024)",
                "dataTable": "3.0/DR31-3.0-job-vacancy-rate--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source(s)
Office for National Statistics, Vacancy Survey and Labour Force Survey

### Time period
2001 to 2024

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the number of vacancies for every unemployed person in the UK. A higher value indicates greater opportunities for job seekers.

The vacancy rate is based on:

* the number of unemployed people aged 16 to 64
* the number of vacancies

All estimates are based on data for October to December each year.

Rates are rounded to 1 decimal place.

### Things you need to know
Figures are seasonally adjusted to account for variations during the year. Read more about [seasonal adjustment](https://www.ons.gov.uk/methodology/methodologytopicsandstatisticalconcepts/seasonaladjustment) from ONS.

These findings are different from those in last year’s report. This is because the previous figures have been revised. 

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2025 on GOV.UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2025-the-evolving-story-of-social-mobility-in-the-uk).

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="3.0/DR31-3.0-job-vacancy-rate--full-dataset.csv" :::
