son/content/drivers_of_social_mobility/composite_indices/labour_market_opportunities/1.0.md, before:

---
title: Labour market opportunities for young people
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on labour market opportunities for 25 to 29 year olds across the UK,  measured by their occupation level and earnings.

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Index of labour market opportunities, by local authority (UK, 2014 to 2022 combined)

        [203 local authority areas in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area/latest#list-of-uk-regions) are put into 5 categories based on their ‘index of labour market opportunities’ composite scores. The categories are not equally sized – the middle category is larger because most local authorities are very near the average. Areas with the highest scores have the most favourable labour market opportunities.

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "CI",
                "title": "Index of labour market opportunities, by local authority (UK, 2014 to 2022 combined)",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/International_Territorial_Level_2_(January_2021)_UK_BUC.json",
                "data": "1.0/CI-1.0-labour-market-opportunities--by-region--chart-format.csv",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "ITL221NM",
                "quantile": "group",
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "zero": false,
                "reversePolarity": true,
                "background": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "domain": [-2, 5],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "value",
                "ykey": "area_name",
                "sort": "-value",
                "xgrid": true,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xtitle": "",
                "legend": false,
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Index of labour market opportunities, by local authority (UK, 2014 to 2022 combined)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/CI-1.0-labour-market-opportunities--by-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2, 0]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## Summary main findings
Data for 2018 to 2022 shows that the ‘north-south divide’ for young people's labour market opportunities was clearer than it was for [childhood conditions](/drivers_of_social_mobility/composite_indices/childhood_conditions/latest). 

The most favourable labour market opportunities were in some London boroughs and Bristol. This means young people living there were more likely to be in professional occupations and earn more.

There were fewer local authorities in Scotland and the north west of England among the areas with favourable opportunities, and none in Wales.

Areas with unfavourable opportunities include older industrial and port areas in the north and the midlands, such as Birmingham, Hartlepool, and Sunderland, as well as some mainly rural areas such as Northumberland and the Shetland Islands.

There were also more local authorities with unfavourable conditions in the north east of England.

---

## About the data

### Data source(s)
Labour Force Survey (LFS), Office for National Statistics

### Time period
2014 to 2022 combined

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
This page combines data from the following 2 indicators into a single 'composite' score:

* [Occupational level of young people aged 25 to 29 years](/intermediate_outcomes/work_in_early_adulthood_(25_to_29_years)/occupational_level_of_young_people_aged_25_to_29_years) – data on young people in professional occupations
* [Earnings of young people aged 25 to 29 years](/intermediate_outcomes/work_in_early_adulthood_(25_to_29_years)/earnings_of_young_people_aged_25_to_29_years) – data on young people's earnings at work

### Things you need to know
Areas are based on where respondents live now, not where they grew up.

### Type of data
Survey data

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="1.0/CI-1.0-labour-market-opportunities--full-dataset.csv" :::

Commit message:

EHD-1311: Inset text: Use new component for map help text on composite indices

son/content/drivers_of_social_mobility/composite_indices/labour_market_opportunities/1.0.md, after:

---
title: Labour market opportunities for young people
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on labour market opportunities for 25 to 29 year olds across the UK,  measured by their occupation level and earnings.

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Index of labour market opportunities, by local authority (UK, 2014 to 2022 combined)

        ::: inset_text classes="govuk-!-margin-top-3"
            [203 local authority areas in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area/latest#list-of-uk-regions)
            are put into 5 categories based on their ‘index of labour market opportunities’ composite scores.
            The categories are not equally sized – the middle category is larger because most local authorities are very near the average.
            Areas with the highest scores have the most favourable labour market opportunities.
        :::

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "CI",
                "title": "Index of labour market opportunities, by local authority (UK, 2014 to 2022 combined)",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/International_Territorial_Level_2_(January_2021)_UK_BUC.json",
                "data": "1.0/CI-1.0-labour-market-opportunities--by-region--chart-format.csv",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "ITL221NM",
                "quantile": "group",
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "zero": false,
                "reversePolarity": true,
                "background": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "domain": [-2, 5],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "value",
                "ykey": "area_name",
                "sort": "-value",
                "xgrid": true,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xtitle": "",
                "legend": false,
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Index of labour market opportunities, by local authority (UK, 2014 to 2022 combined)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/CI-1.0-labour-market-opportunities--by-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2, 0]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## Summary main findings
Data for 2018 to 2022 shows that the ‘north-south divide’ for young people's labour market opportunities was clearer than it was for [childhood conditions](/drivers_of_social_mobility/composite_indices/childhood_conditions/latest). 

The most favourable labour market opportunities were in some London boroughs and Bristol. This means young people living there were more likely to be in professional occupations and earn more.

There were fewer local authorities in Scotland and the north west of England among the areas with favourable opportunities, and none in Wales.

Areas with unfavourable opportunities include older industrial and port areas in the north and the midlands, such as Birmingham, Hartlepool, and Sunderland, as well as some mainly rural areas such as Northumberland and the Shetland Islands.

There were also more local authorities with unfavourable conditions in the north east of England.

---

## About the data

### Data source(s)
Labour Force Survey (LFS), Office for National Statistics

### Time period
2014 to 2022 combined

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
This page combines data from the following 2 indicators into a single 'composite' score:

* [Occupational level of young people aged 25 to 29 years](/intermediate_outcomes/work_in_early_adulthood_(25_to_29_years)/occupational_level_of_young_people_aged_25_to_29_years) – data on young people in professional occupations
* [Earnings of young people aged 25 to 29 years](/intermediate_outcomes/work_in_early_adulthood_(25_to_29_years)/earnings_of_young_people_aged_25_to_29_years) – data on young people's earnings at work

### Things you need to know
Areas are based on where respondents live now, not where they grew up.

### Type of data
Survey data

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="1.0/CI-1.0-labour-market-opportunities--full-dataset.csv" :::
