---
title: Labour Market Opportunities
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data for UK regions on factors that can reduce people’s social mobility chances – childhood poverty,
youth unemployment, and lower working-class work among parents.

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Index of childhood poverty and disadvantage, by region (UK, 2014 to 2021 combined)

        [41 regions in the UK](/social_mobility_by_area#the-41-regions) are ranked from the lowest to highest composite scores.
        They are then divided into 5 equally-sized groups (‘quintiles’), from 1 (lowest) to 5 (highest).
        Areas with the highest scores have the highest levels of childhood poverty and disadvantage.

        ::: visualisation vis_type="map" section_name="By area"
            {
                "code": "CI",
                "title": "Index of childhood poverty and disadvantage, by region (UK, 2014 to 2021 combined)",
                "map": "/static/data/maps/International_Territorial_Level_2_(January_2021)_UK_BUC.json",
                "data": "1.0/CI-1.0-labour-market-opportunities--by-region--chart-format.csv",
                "geoFormat": "",
                "nameField": "area_name",
                "valueField": "value",
                "areaField": "ITL221NM",
                "quantile": "group",
                "height": 700,
                "dataFormat": "quintile",
                "zero": false,
                "reversePolarity": true,
                "background": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#ca0020", "#f4a582", "#ffffbf", "#92c5de", "#0571b0"],
                "domain": [-2, 5],
                "rolloverBehaviour": "outline",
                "onClick": "mapSelect1",
                "type": "dot",
                "xkey": "value",
                "ykey": "area_name",
                "sort": "-value",
                "xgrid": true,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xtitle": "",
                "legend": false,
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "backgroundColor": "#fafafa"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Index of childhood poverty and disadvantage, by region (UK, 2014 to 2021 combined)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/CI-1.0-labour-market-opportunities--by-region--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2, 0]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By area" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## Summary main findings
Some of the highest levels of childhood poverty and disadvantage are in:

* London
* Greater Manchester
* West Midlands

This is mainly due to the high youth unemployment rates in those areas.

Some areas have high levels of both advantage and disadvantage.
For example, most of London is in the top 20% of areas for
[sociocultural advantage](/drivers_of_social_mobility/composite_indices/socio-cultural_advantage), but also
the bottom 20% for childhood poverty and disadvantage.

---

## About the data
This page combines data from the following 3 indicators into a single ‘composite’ score to give a more
reliable picture of geographical mobility patterns:

* [Childhood poverty](/drivers_of_social_mobility/conditions_of_childhood/childhood_poverty)
  – data on children living in relative poverty
* [Youth unemployment](/drivers_of_social_mobility/work_opportunities_for_young_people/youth_unemployment)
  – data on 16 to 24 year olds in unemployment
* [Parental occupation](/drivers_of_social_mobility/conditions_of_childhood/distribution_of_parental_occupation)
  – data on parents in lower working class occupations

Indicators are rescaled to make sure they use a common metric.
The best-performing area’s score is set to 0, and the least well-performing area’s score is set to 1.

See the [technical annex (opens in a new tab)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2023-people-and-places/technical-annex#composite-indices-methodology){: target="_blank" }
for more information on how each area was scored.

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="1.0/CI-1.0-labour-market-opportunities--full-dataset.csv" :::
