son/content/intermediate_outcomes/career_progression_(35_to_44_years)/income_progression/2.0.md, before:

---
title: Income progression
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on changes in the annual income of men and women aged 25 to 44 years in the UK, by socio-economic background.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

Data from 2014 to 2022 shows that the average increase in income for 25 to 44 year olds was greater for young people from professional backgrounds than for those from intermediate or working-class backgrounds.

Income for men and women went up steadily from 25 to 35 years old, and stopped increasing after. 

Compared with men’s income, women’s income was lower, did not go up as quickly, and stopped increasing a few years earlier than for men.

---

## By sex

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By sex" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Income progression of men and women aged 25 to 44, by socio-economic background (UK, 2014 to 2022 combined)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By sex"
            {
                "code": "IN43",
                "title": "Income progression of men and women aged 25 to 44, by socio-economic background (UK, 2014 to 2022 combined)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": [{
                    "label": "Women",
                    "data": "2.0/IN43-2.0-income-progression--by-age-and-SEB--women--chart-format.csv"
                }, {
                    "label": "Men",
                    "data": "2.0/IN43-2.0-income-progression--by-age-and-SEB--men--chart-format.csv"
                }],
                "toggle": "radio",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "age",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "seb",
                "sort": "age",
                "scale": "£",
                "lowerConfidence": "lci",
                "upperConfidence": "uci",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "yticks": 5,
                "xtitle": "Age (years)",
                "legend": true,
                "reverseLegend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#1a9e1c", "#00703c", "#eb652e", "#0096ff", "#0f265c", "#808080"],
                "range": [10000, 50000],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 80,
                "rolloverBehaviour": "fade",
                "clickBehaviour": "isolate"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By sex" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Income progression of men and women aged 25 to 44, by socio-economic background (UK, 2014 to 2022 combined)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/IN43-2.0-income-progression--by-age-and-SEB-and-sex--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
                "dataTableNumberOfHeadingRows": 2
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By sex" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Office for National Statistics (ONS), Labour Force Survey (LFS)

### Time period
2014 to 2022 (combined)

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the average income progression of men and women aged 25 to 44 years in the UK.

Socio-economic background is based on the main earner’s occupation when the respondent was aged 14 years. Where there was no earner in the family, the respondent is included in the lower working class category. The categories are based on the National Statistics Socio-economic Classification (NS-SEC), set by the ONS.

### Things you need to know
The data used is weighted using LFS person weights.

This year’s data is not directly comparable with last year’s due to slight revisions to a change in the inflation base year. 

The error bars show 95% confidence intervals. Read more about [confidence intervals](https://dev.social-mobility.data.gov.uk/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals).

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2024 on GOV.UK].

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/IN43-2.0-income-progression--full-dataset.csv" :::

Commit message:

Updated Income progression – final SMC amends

son/content/intermediate_outcomes/career_progression_(35_to_44_years)/income_progression/2.0.md, after:

---
title: Income progression
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on changes in the annual income of men and women aged 25 to 44 years in the UK, by socio-economic background.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

Data from 2014 to 2022 shows that the average increase in income for 25 to 44 year olds was greater for young people from professional backgrounds than for those from intermediate or working-class backgrounds.

Average incomes increased steadily from the age of 25 to 35 years, and tended to flatten out after. The average increase was greater for young people from professional backgrounds than for those from intermediate or working-class backgrounds.

Women’s average earnings were lower, and did not increase as quickly as men’s. The earnings for women tended to flatten out a few years earlier than for men.

---

## By sex

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By sex" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Income progression of men and women aged 25 to 44, by socio-economic background (UK, 2014 to 2022 combined)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By sex"
            {
                "code": "IN43",
                "title": "Income progression of men and women aged 25 to 44, by socio-economic background (UK, 2014 to 2022 combined)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": [{
                    "label": "Women",
                    "data": "2.0/IN43-2.0-income-progression--by-age-and-SEB--women--chart-format.csv"
                }, {
                    "label": "Men",
                    "data": "2.0/IN43-2.0-income-progression--by-age-and-SEB--men--chart-format.csv"
                }],
                "toggle": "radio",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "age",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "seb",
                "sort": "age",
                "scale": "£",
                "lowerConfidence": "lci",
                "upperConfidence": "uci",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "yticks": 5,
                "xtitle": "Age (years)",
                "legend": true,
                "reverseLegend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#1a9e1c", "#00703c", "#eb652e", "#0096ff", "#0f265c", "#808080"],
                "range": [10000, 50000],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 80,
                "rolloverBehaviour": "fade",
                "clickBehaviour": "isolate"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By sex" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Income progression of men and women aged 25 to 44, by socio-economic background (UK, 2014 to 2022 combined)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/IN43-2.0-income-progression--by-age-and-SEB-and-sex--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
                "dataTableNumberOfHeadingRows": 2
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By sex" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Office for National Statistics (ONS), Labour Force Survey (LFS)

### Time period
2014 to 2022 (combined)

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the average income progression of men and women aged 25 to 44 years in the UK.

Socio-economic background is based on the main earner’s occupation when the respondent was aged 14 years. Where there was no earner in the family, the respondent is included in the lower working class category. The categories are based on the National Statistics Socio-economic Classification (NS-SEC), set by the ONS.

### Things you need to know
The data used is weighted using LFS person weights.

This year’s data is not directly comparable with last year’s due to slight revisions to a change in the inflation base year. 

The error bars show 95% confidence intervals. Read more about [confidence intervals](https://dev.social-mobility.data.gov.uk/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals).

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2024 on GOV.UK].

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/IN43-2.0-income-progression--full-dataset.csv" :::
