---
title: Income progression
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on changes in the annual income of men and women aged 25 to 44 years in the UK, by socio-economic background.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

Data from 2014 to 2022 shows that annual income of men and women aged 25 to 44 years from professional backgrounds went up more than for those from intermediate or working class backgrounds.

Income for men and women went up steadily from 25 to 35 years old, and stopped increasing after. 

Compared with men’s income, women’s income was lower, did not go up as quickly, and stopped increasing a few years earlier than for men.

---

## By sex

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By sex" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Income progression of men and women aged 25 to 44, by socio-economic background (UK, 2014 to 2022 combined)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By sex"
            {
                "code": "IN43",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": [{
                    "label": "Women",
                    "data": "2.0/IN43-2.0-income-progression--by-age-and-SEB--women--chart-format.csv"
                }, {
                    "label": "Men",
                    "data": "2.0/IN43-2.0-income-progression--by-age-and-SEB--men--chart-format.csv"
                }],
                "toggle": "radio",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "age",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "seb",
                "sort": "age",
                "scale": "£",
                "lowerConfidence": "lci",
                "upperConfidence": "uci",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "yticks": 5,
                "xtitle": "Age (years)",
                "legend": true,
                "reverseLegend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#1a9e1c", "#00703c", "#eb652e", "#0096ff", "#0f265c", "#808080"],
                "range": [10000, 50000],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 80,
                "rolloverBehaviour": "fade",
                "clickBehaviour": "isolate"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By sex" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Income progression of men and women aged 25 to 44, by socio-economic background (UK, 2014 to 2022 combined)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/IN43-2.0-income-progression--by-age-and-SEB-and-sex--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
                "dataTableNumberOfHeadingRows": 2
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By sex" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Office for National Statistics (ONS), Labour Force Survey (LFS)

### Time period
2014 to 2022 (combined)

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the average income progression of men and women aged 25 to 44 years in the UK.

Data is shown for the following socio-economic backgrounds:

* higher professional class
* lower professional class
* intermediate class
* higher working class
* lower working classes

These are based on the National Statistics Socio-economic Classification (NS-SEC), set by the ONS.

### Things you need to know
The data used is weighted using LFS person weights.

Estimates come from a logistic regression of annual income by socio-economic background and age, controlling for survey year and number of dependent children.

This year’s data is not directly comparable with last year’s due to slight revisions to a change in the inflation base year. 

The error bars show 95% confidence intervals. Read more about [confidence intervals](https://dev.social-mobility.data.gov.uk/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals).

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2024 on GOV.UK].

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/IN43-2.0-income-progression--full-dataset.csv" :::
