---
title: Income progression
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: 2025 Updates
---

Data on changes in the annual income of men and women aged 25 to 44 years in the UK, by socio-economic background and year.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

In the time covered by the data, 25 to 44 year olds from professional backgrounds had a greater increase in their income on average compared with those from intermediate and working class backgrounds.

Average incomes increased steadily from the age of 25 to 35 years, and tended to flatten out after. 

Women’s average earnings were lower, and did not increase as quickly as men’s. The earnings for women tended to flatten out a few years earlier than for men.

---

## By sex

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By sex" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Income progression of men and women aged 25 to 44, by socio-economic background (UK, 2014 to 2016, and 2022 to 2024)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By sex"
            {
                "code": "IN43",
                "title": "Income progression of men and women aged 25 to 44, by socio-economic background (UK, 2014 to 2016, and 2022 to 2024)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": [{
                    "label": "Men 2014-2016",
                    "data": "3.0/IN43-3.0-income-progression--by-age-and-SEB--Men--2014-to-2016--chart-format.csv"
                }, {
                    "label": "Men 2022-2024",
                    "data": "3.0/IN43-3.0-income-progression--by-age-and-SEB--Men--2022-to-2024--chart-format.csv"
                }, {
                    "label": "Women 2014-2016",
                    "data": "3.0/IN43-3.0-income-progression--by-age-and-SEB--Women--2014-to-2016--chart-format.csv"
                }, {
                    "label": "Women 2022-2024",
                    "data": "3.0/IN43-3.0-income-progression--by-age-and-SEB--Women--2022-to-2024--chart-format.csv"
                }],
                "toggle": "radio",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "primary_split_value",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "secondary_split_value",
                "sort": "primary_split_value",
                "scale": "£",
                "lowerConfidence": "lci",
                "upperConfidence": "uci",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "yticks": 5,
                "xtitle": "Age (years)",
                "legend": true,
                "reverseLegend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#1a9e1c", "#00703c", "#eb652e", "#0096ff", "#0f265c", "#808080"],
                "range": [10000, 60000],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 80,
                "rolloverBehaviour": "fade",
                "clickBehaviour": "isolate"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By sex" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Income progression of men and women aged 25 to 44, by socio-economic background (UK, 2014 to 2016, and 2022 to 2024)",
                "dataTable": "3.0/IN43-3.0-income-progression--by-age-and-SEB--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
                "dataTableNumberOfHeadingRows": 2,
                "dataTableNumberOfHeadingColumns": 2
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By sex" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Office for National Statistics (ONS), Labour Force Survey (LFS)

### Time period
* 2014 to 2016 (combined)
* 2022 to 2024 (combined)

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the average income progression of men and women aged 25 to 44 years in the UK.

Socio-economic background is based on the main earner’s occupation when the respondent was aged 14 years. Where there was no earner in the family, the respondent is included in the lower working class category. The categories are based on the National Statistics Socio-economic Classification (NS-SEC), set by the ONS.

### Things you need to know
The data used is weighted using LFS income weights.

This year’s data is not directly comparable with last year’s due to a change in the inflation base year.

The error bars show 95% confidence intervals. Read more about [confidence intervals](/about-our-analysis#confidence-intervals).

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2025 on GOV.UK]().

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="3.0/IN43-3.0-income-progression--full-dataset.csv" :::
