son/content/intermediate_outcomes/compulsory_school_age_(5_to_16_years)/skills_at_age_15/1.0.md, before:

---
title: Skills at age 15
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on the scores of 15 year old students in the UK and internationally in reading, maths and science, by the highest education level of their parents.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

Data for 2022 shows that there is a link between pupils’ scores in science, maths and reading at 15 years old and their parents’ education level. This is the case both in the UK and internationally.

Pupils in the UK scored above the international average for OECD countries for pupils whose parents had the same qualifications.

In both the UK and OECD countries, pupils whose parents had a ‘level 1’ qualification (educated to primary school level) had lower scores than pupils whose parents had a ‘level 7’ qualification (Master’s degree).

---

## Mathematics

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="Mathematics" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Average pupil attainment score for 15 year olds in maths, by parents’ education level (UK and OECD average, 2022)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="Mathematics"
            {
                "code": "IN11",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "1.0/IN11-1.0-skills-at-age-15--by-education-level--mathematics--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "area_name",
                "ykey": "value",
                "group": "level_with_text",
                "sort": "area_name",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticksSmallScreen": "abreviate",
                "yticks": 12,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c"],
                "range": [0, 550],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 40,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff",
                "clickBehaviour": "fade"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="Mathematics" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Average pupil attainment score for 15 year olds in maths, by parents’ education level (UK and OECD average, 2022)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/IN11-1.0-skills-at-age-15--by-education-level--mathematics--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right"]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="Mathematics" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## Science

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="Science" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Average pupil attainment score for 15 year olds in science, by parents’ education level (UK and OECD average, 2022)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="Science"
            {
                "code": "IN11",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "1.0/IN11-1.0-skills-at-age-15--by-education-level--science--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "area_name",
                "ykey": "value",
                "group": "level_with_text",
                "sort": "area_name",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticksSmallScreen": "abreviate",
                "yticks": 12,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c"],
                "range": [0, 550],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 40,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff",
                "clickBehaviour": "fade"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="Science" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Average pupil attainment score for 15 year olds in science, by parents’ education level (UK and OECD average, 2022)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/IN11-1.0-skills-at-age-15--by-education-level--science--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right"]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="Science" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## Reading

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="Reading" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Average pupil attainment score for 15 year olds in reading, by parents’ education level (UK and OECD average, 2022)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="Reading"
            {
                "code": "IN11",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "1.0/IN11-1.0-skills-at-age-15--by-education-level--reading--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "area_name",
                "ykey": "value",
                "group": "level_with_text",
                "sort": "area_name",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticksSmallScreen": "abreviate",
                "yticks": 12,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c"],
                "range": [0, 550],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 40,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff",
                "clickBehaviour": "fade"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="Reading" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Average pupil attainment score for 15 year olds in reading, by parents’ education level (UK and OECD average, 2022)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/IN11-1.0-skills-at-age-15--by-education-level--reading--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right"]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="Reading" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA), 2022 mathematics, reading and science assessments

### Time period
2022

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows the performance of 15 year old students in maths, science and reading in the UK, by the highest education level of their parents. It also shows the international average, measured in [OECD countries](https://www.oecd.org/about/document/ratification-oecd-convention.htm).

### Things you need to know
Data is shown for the following qualification levels:

* level 1: primary education
* level 2: lower secondary (went to secondary school but got lower than GCSE level)
* level 3.3: upper secondary with no direct access to tertiary education
* level 3.4: upper secondary with direct access to post-secondary education
* level 4: post-secondary non-tertiary education (for example, a higher education access course)
* level 5: short-cycle tertiary education (below degree level and at least 2 years – for example, a level 4 apprenticeship)
* level 6: Bachelor’s degree or equivalent
* level 7: Master’s degree or equivalent

Data is not included for pupils whose parents had a level 8 qualification (doctoral degree). This is due to the small size of this group. 

Average PISA scores are scaled so that the mean average for OECD countries is around 500 points. Read more about [PISA 2022 results](https://www.oecd.org/en/publications/pisa-2022-results-volume-i_53f23881-en.html).

### Type of data
Administrative data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2024 on GOV.UK].

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="1.0/IN11-1.0-skills-at-age-15--full-dataset.csv" :::

Commit message:

Updated Skills at age 15 based on SMC feedback

son/content/intermediate_outcomes/compulsory_school_age_(5_to_16_years)/skills_at_age_15/1.0.md, after:

---
title: Skills at age 15
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on the scores of 15 year old students in the UK and internationally in reading, maths and science, by the highest education level of their parents.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

Data for 2022 shows that there is a link between pupils’ scores in science, maths and reading at 15 years old and their parents’ education level. This is the case both in the UK and internationally.

Pupils in the UK scored above the international average for OECD countries for pupils whose parents had the same qualifications.

In both the UK and OECD countries, pupils whose parents had a ‘level 1’ qualification (educated to primary school level) had lower scores than pupils whose parents had a ‘level 7’ qualification (Master’s degree).

---

## Mathematics

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="Mathematics" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Average pupil attainment score for 15 year olds in maths, by parents’ education level (UK and OECD average, 2022)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="Mathematics"
            {
                "code": "IN11",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "1.0/IN11-1.0-skills-at-age-15--by-education-level--mathematics--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "area_name",
                "ykey": "value",
                "group": "level_with_text",
                "sort": "area_name",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticksSmallScreen": "abreviate",
                "yticks": 12,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c"],
                "range": [0, 550],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 40,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff",
                "clickBehaviour": "fade"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="Mathematics" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Average pupil attainment score for 15 year olds in maths, by parents’ education level (UK and OECD average, 2022)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/IN11-1.0-skills-at-age-15--by-education-level--mathematics--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right"]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="Mathematics" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## Science

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="Science" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Average pupil attainment score for 15 year olds in science, by parents’ education level (UK and OECD average, 2022)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="Science"
            {
                "code": "IN11",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "1.0/IN11-1.0-skills-at-age-15--by-education-level--science--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "area_name",
                "ykey": "value",
                "group": "level_with_text",
                "sort": "area_name",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticksSmallScreen": "abreviate",
                "yticks": 12,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c"],
                "range": [0, 550],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 40,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff",
                "clickBehaviour": "fade"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="Science" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Average pupil attainment score for 15 year olds in science, by parents’ education level (UK and OECD average, 2022)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/IN11-1.0-skills-at-age-15--by-education-level--science--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right"]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="Science" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## Reading

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="Reading" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Average pupil attainment score for 15 year olds in reading, by parents’ education level (UK and OECD average, 2022)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="Reading"
            {
                "code": "IN11",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "1.0/IN11-1.0-skills-at-age-15--by-education-level--reading--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "area_name",
                "ykey": "value",
                "group": "level_with_text",
                "sort": "area_name",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticksSmallScreen": "abreviate",
                "yticks": 12,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c"],
                "range": [0, 550],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 40,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff",
                "clickBehaviour": "fade"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="Reading" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Average pupil attainment score for 15 year olds in reading, by parents’ education level (UK and OECD average, 2022)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/IN11-1.0-skills-at-age-15--by-education-level--reading--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right"]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="Reading" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA), 2022 mathematics, reading and science assessments

### Time period
2022

### Geographic area
UK and OECD countries

### What the data measures
The data shows the performance of 15 year old students in maths, science and reading in the UK, by the highest education level of their parents. It also shows the international average, measured in [OECD countries](https://www.oecd.org/about/document/ratification-oecd-convention.htm).

### Things you need to know
Data is shown for the following qualification levels, based on the International Standard Classification of Education (ISCED):

* level 1: primary education
* level 2: lower secondary (went to secondary school but got lower than GCSE level)
* level 3.3: upper secondary with no direct access to tertiary education
* level 3.4: upper secondary with direct access to post-secondary education
* level 4: post-secondary non-tertiary education (for example, a higher education access course)
* level 5: short-cycle tertiary education (below degree level and at least 2 years – for example, a level 4 apprenticeship)
* level 6: Bachelor’s degree or equivalent
* level 7: Master’s degree or equivalent

Data is not included for pupils whose parents had a level 8 qualification (doctoral degree). This is due to the small size of this group. 

Average PISA scores are scaled so that the mean average for OECD countries is around 500 points. Read more about [PISA 2022 results](https://www.oecd.org/en/publications/pisa-2022-results-volume-i_53f23881-en.html).

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2024 on GOV.UK].

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="1.0/IN11-1.0-skills-at-age-15--full-dataset.csv" :::
