son/content/drivers_of_social_mobility/work_opportunities_for_young_people/labour_market_earnings_of_young_people/2.0.md, before:

---
title: Labour market earnings of young people
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on median (average) hourly pay for 22 to 29 year olds in the UK.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

In 2022, the median (average) real hourly pay for 22 to 29 year olds in the UK was £12.20.

Growth in real hourly pay for 22 to 29 year olds has been low over the last 15 years. This is partly down to sharp falls after:

* the financial crisis in 2008 – average hourly pay went down from £13.31 in 2009 to £12.21 in 2011
* the cost of living crisis in 2022 – average hourly pay went down from £13.33 in 2021 to £12.20 in 2022

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Median (average) real hourly pay (£) of 22 to 29 year olds, over time (UK, 1997 to 2022)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR34",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "2.0/DR34-2.0-labour-market-earnings-of-young-people--by-year--original.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "time_period",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "area_name",
                "sort": "time_period",
                "scale": "££",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticks": 7,
                "yticks": 3,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca"],
                "range": [0, 15],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 35
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Median (average) real hourly pay (£) of 22 to 29 year olds, over time (UK, 1997 to 2022)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR34-2.0-labour-market-earnings-of-young-people--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source(s)
Office for National Statistics, Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings

### Time period
1997 to 2022

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows median (average) real hourly pay for 22 to 29 year olds in the UK.

### Things you need to know
Earnings are adjusted for inflation using the Consumer Price Index, with a base year of 2021.

The data does not include self-employed people or employees who were not paid during the survey period.

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2023 on GOV.UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2023-people-and-places).

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/DR34-2.0-labour-market-earnings-of-young-people--full-dataset.csv" :::

Commit message:

Update Labour market earnings of young people content 2.0.md

son/content/drivers_of_social_mobility/work_opportunities_for_young_people/labour_market_earnings_of_young_people/2.0.md, after:

---
title: Earnings of young people
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on median hourly pay for 22 to 29 year olds in the UK.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

In 2023, the median hourly pay for 22 to 29 year olds in the UK was £13.46.

Growth in hourly pay has been low over the last 15 years. This is partly due to:

* the financial crisis in 2008 – median hourly pay went down from £13.39 in 2009 to £12.19 in 2011
* the cost of living crisis – median hourly pay went down from £13.58 in 2021 to £13.32 in 2022, and up slightly in 2023 (to £13.46)

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Median hourly pay (£) of 22 to 29 year olds, over time (UK, 1997 to 2023)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR34",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "2.0/DR34-2.0-labour-market-earnings-of-young-people--by-year--original.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "time_period",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "area_name",
                "sort": "time_period",
                "scale": "££",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticks": 7,
                "yticks": 3,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca"],
                "range": [0, 15],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 35
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Median hourly pay (£) of 22 to 29 year olds, over time (UK, 1997 to 2023)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR34-2.0-labour-market-earnings-of-young-people--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source(s)
Office for National Statistics, Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings

### Time period
1997 to 2023

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows median real hourly pay for 22 to 29 year olds in the UK. 

‘Real’ hourly pay means that earnings are adjusted for inflation using the Consumer Price Index, with a base year of 2022.

The median is the middle point of a range of numbers which are arranged in order. Using the median prevents very high and very low values from distorting the figures.

### Things you need to know
The data does not include self-employed people or employees who were not paid during the survey period.

The data is not comparable to the data in last year’s report. This is due to an update in the inflation adjustment methodology. 

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2024 on GOV.UK].

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/DR34-2.0-labour-market-earnings-of-young-people--full-dataset.csv" :::
