---
title: Labour market earnings of young people
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: Updated for 2025
---

Data on median hourly pay for 22 to 29 year olds in the UK.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

Real hourly pay fell markedly after the 2008 financial crisis. It recovered slowly to pre-crisis levels in 2021, and has increased slightly again.

After accounting for inflation, median hourly pay fell slightly from its peak of £13.58 in 2021 to £13.32 in 2022. It recovered to £13.46 in 2023. 

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Median real hourly pay of 22 to 29 year olds, over time (UK, 1997 to 2023)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR34",
                "title": "Median real hourly pay of 22 to 29 year olds, over time (UK, 1997 to 2023)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "2.0/DR34-2.0-labour-market-earnings-of-young-people--by-year--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "liney",
                "xkey": "time_period",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "area_name",
                "sort": "time_period",
                "scale": "££",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticks": 7,
                "yticks": 3,
                "legend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca"],
                "range": [0, 15],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 35
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Median real hourly pay of 22 to 29 year olds, over time (UK, 1997 to 2023)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR34-2.0-labour-market-earnings-of-young-people--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 2]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source(s)
Office for National Statistics, Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings

### Time period
1997 to 2023

### Geographic area
UK

### What the data measures
The data shows median real hourly pay for 22 to 29 year olds in the UK. 

‘Real’ hourly pay means that earnings are adjusted for inflation using the Consumer Price Index, with a base year of 2022.

The median is the middle point of a range of numbers which are arranged in order. Using the median prevents very high and very low values from distorting the figures.

### Things you need to know
The data does not include self-employed people or employees who were not paid during the survey period.

The data is not comparable to the data in last year’s report. This is due to an update in the inflation adjustment methodology. 

### Type of data
Survey data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2024 on GOV.UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2024-local-to-national-mapping-opportunities-for-all).

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/DR34-2.0-labour-market-earnings-of-young-people--full-dataset.csv" :::
