---
title: Further education and training opportunities
date: 2023-09-12
change_history: First published
---

Data on the percentage of 16 to 18 year olds in education, training and employment.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

93% of 16 to 18 year olds were in education, training or employment in 2021, compared with 90% in 2011.

6% of 16 to 18 year olds were not in any form of education, employment or training (known as ‘NEET’) in 2021,
compared with 10% in 2011.

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of 16 to 18 year olds in education, training or employment, over time (UK, 2011 to 2021)

        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR21",
                "title": "Percentage of 16 to 18 year olds in education, training or employment, over time (UK, 2011 to 2021)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "1.0/DR21_overview-20230417.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "Time_period",
                "ykey": "Value",
                "zkey": "Category",
                "sort": "Time_period",
                "scale": "%",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticksSmallScreen": "abreviate",
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "reverseLegend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c", "#4c2c92", "#d53880", "#28a197"],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 45,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff",
                "clickBehaviour": "filter"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of 16 to 18 year olds in education, training or employment, over time (UK, 2011 to 2021)",
                "dataTable": "1.0/DR21-further-education-and-training-opportunities--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Department for Education, Participation in education, training and employment, 2022

### Time period
2011 to 2021

### Geographic area
England

### What the data measures
The data shows the percentage of young people aged 16 to 18 years old in education, training and employment
in England, from 2011 to 2021.

### Things you need to know
A person identified as NEET is either unemployed or economically inactive. In previous data, there have been very
small overlaps of students studying in further or higher education, and work-based learning at the same time.
The total number of young people in training is calculated by removing these overlaps.

Since 2013, 16 to 17 year olds have been legally required to remain in education and training (at least part-time)
in England, but not in Wales, Scotland or Northern Ireland.

Data for 2020 and 2021 may be impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.

### Type of data
Administrative data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2023 on GOV.UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2023-people-and-places).

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="1.0/DR21-further-education-and-training-opportunities--full-dataset.csv" :::
