---
title: Further education and training opportunities
date: 9999-12-31
change_history: First published
---

Data on the percentage of 16 to 18 year olds in education, training and employment.

[TOC]

## Summary main findings

Between 2011 and 2022, there was a small drop in the percentage of 16 to 18 year olds who were not in education, employment or training (‘NEET’).

Between 2021 and 2022:

* the percentage of 16 to 18 year olds who were in education and apprenticeships went down slightly, from 80% to 79%
* there was a slight increase in the percentage who were NEET, from 7% to 8% 

---

## By year

::: tabs
    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Visualisation"
        #### Percentage of 16 to 18 year olds in education, training or employment, over time (England, 2011 to 2022)
        
        ::: visualisation vis_type="chart" section_name="By year"
            {
                "code": "DR21",
                "title": "Percentage of 16 to 18 year olds in education, training or employment, over time (England, 2011 to 2022)",
                "tooltipTitle": "",
                "data": "2.0/DR21-2.0-further-education-and-training-opportunities--by-year--chart-format.csv",
                "height": 450,
                "type": "bary",
                "xkey": "time_period",
                "ykey": "value",
                "zkey": "category",
                "sort": "time_period",
                "scale": "%",
                "rounding": "0dp",
                "xgrid": false,
                "ygrid": true,
                "xticksSmallScreen": "abreviate",
                "yticks": 5,
                "legend": true,
                "reverseLegend": true,
                "colourScheme": ["#5694ca", "#d4351c", "#4c2c92", "#d53880", "#28a197"],
                "margin": [10, 20, 5, 5],
                "maxLabelLength": 45,
                "textLabels": "center",
                "labelColour": "#fff",
                "clickBehaviour": "filter"
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Data"
        ::: data_table
            {
                "title": "Percentage of 16 to 18 year olds in education, training or employment, over time (England, 2011 to 2022)",
                "dataTable": "2.0/DR21-2.0-further-education-and-training-opportunities--by-year--table-format.csv",
                "dataTableAlignColumns": ["left", "right", "right", "right", "right"],
                "dataTableDecimalPlaces": [null, 1, 1, 1, 1]
            }
        :::
    :::

    ::: tab section_name="By year" tab_name="Download"
        ::: download_section :::
    :::
:::

---

## About the data

### Data source
Department for Education, Participation in education, training and employment

### Time period
2011 to 2022

### Geographic area
England

### What the data measures
The data shows the percentage of young people aged 16 to 18 years old in education, training and employment in England.

### Things you need to know
A person identified as NEET is either unemployed or economically inactive. Previous data includes a small number of students in further or higher education and work-based learning at the same time. The total number of young people in training excludes this group.

Since 2013, 16 to 17 year olds in England have been legally required to stay in education and training.

These findings are not comparable to those in last year’s report. This is because the figures from 2011 to 2021 have been revised to include improved population estimates.

Due to rounding, not all totals add up to 100%.

### Type of data
Administrative data

### Full report
Read more in [State of the Nation 2024 on GOV.UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/state-of-the-nation-2024-local-to-national-mapping-opportunities-for-all).

---

## Download the data

::: download_full_dataset_link data_file="2.0/DR21-2.0-further-education-and-training-opportunities--full-dataset.csv" :::
